--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/16/multimedia/16elections-briefing-ratings/16elections-briefing-ratings-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  2020 Election Live Updates: Biden’s Town Hall Drew More Viewers Than Trump’s, Early Ratings Show 
description: > 
  ET 2020 Election Live Updates: Biden’s Town Hall Drew More Viewers Than Trump’s, Early Ratings Show A head-to-head matchup on competing TV networks appeared to deal a loss to the ratings-conscious president.On NBC, Mr. Trump was darting and defiant as the “Today” host Savannah Guthrie pressed him to denounce QAnon and white supremacy (Mr. Trump hesitated on both) and clear up questions about his medical condition.Critics, including the MSNBC star Rachel Maddow, suggested that NBC had erred in allowing Mr. Trump to appear at the same time as Mr. Biden.Mr. Murdoch supported Mr. Trump in 2016, and Fox News’s biggest prime time stars have been staunch defenders of Mr. Trump and his policies.Throughout the campaign, President Trump has loudly and baselessly claimed that mail-in voting is rife with fraud perpetrated by Democratic partisans. 
date: 1602880391.6545086 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 16, 2020, 3:48 p.m. ET Oct. 16, 2020, 3:48 p.m. ET 2020 Election Live Updates: Biden’s Town Hall Drew More Viewers Than Trump’s, Early Ratings Show A head-to-head matchup on competing TV networks appeared to deal a loss to the ratings-conscious president. President Trump holds rallies in Florida and Georgia today as Joe Biden travels to Michigan. A poll found tightening races in the Republican stronghold of Alaska. RIGHT NOW Republicans still lead in Alaska, but it’s getting more competitive, a Times/Siena poll finds.

Biden leads Trump in the ratings battle after the two appeared on rival network town halls. Joseph R. Biden Jr. at a town hall event on ABC, while President Trump held one on NBC. Credit... Ruth Fremson/The New York Times Television ratings matter to President Trump. So these numbers may sting. In a result that few in the TV and political arena predicted, Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s ABC town hall on Thursday night drew a larger audience than President Trump’s competing event on NBC, MSNBC and CNBC, according to preliminary Nielsen figures. Mr. Biden’s town hall, which aired on a single network, was seen by an average of 13.9 million viewers, compared to 13.1 million for Mr. Trump, according to early data from Nielsen. The ratings will be updated later on Friday afternoon, but so far, the president’s telecast has failed to match Mr. Biden’s — despite Mr. Trump’s event monopolizing three networks simultaneously. The town halls were vastly different television spectacles, befitting their respective protagonists. On NBC, Mr. Trump was darting and defiant as the “Today” host Savannah Guthrie pressed him to denounce QAnon and white supremacy (Mr. Trump hesitated on both) and clear up questions about his medical condition. On ABC, Mr. Biden and the moderator George Stephanopoulos engaged in a sober 90-minute policy discussion more akin to a PBS telecast. (Politico wrote that flipping back and forth between the two was like going from Bob Ross to “WrestleMania.”) NBC had drawn scorn for scheduling its Trump event at the same time as Mr. Biden’s previously-announced ABC forum, depriving viewers of the opportunity to watch both candidates. Executives at NBC News said it was a matter of fairness, saying they wanted the same conditions offered to Mr. Biden at his NBC town hall on Oct. 5. Critics, including the MSNBC star Rachel Maddow, suggested that NBC had erred in allowing Mr. Trump to appear at the same time as Mr. Biden. In the end, it appears that Mr. Biden did not need to worry. And the fact that the Democrat outdrew his voluble Republican rival is likely to launch dozens of hot takes about whether, after four seasons, Americans are simply growing bored with The Trump Show. The viewership figures for both town halls will only grow when Nielsen factors in out-of-home viewers and the number of people who streamed the town halls to their television screens. — Michael M. Grynbaum and

How the battle over Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s confirmation could reshape the Senate. Senator Chuck Schumer, the minority leader, said that if Judge Amy Coney Barrett is confirmed and Democrats win the Senate majority, “everything is on the table.” Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times Judge Amy Coney Barrett is on a glide path to the Supreme Court, but she will leave behind a Senate badly torn by its third confirmation blowup in four years, with the potential for severe repercussions should Democrats take control next year. The decision by Senator Mitch McConnell and Republicans to push through Judge Barrett’s nomination to the high court on the eve of the election, after blocking President Barack Obama’s pick under similar circumstances in 2016, enraged many Democrats who saw it as a violation of Senate norms and customs. They were also coming under increased pressure from progressive activists demanding payback, in the form of an end to the legislative filibuster and an expansion in the size of federal courts should Joseph R. Biden Jr. triumph in the presidential race and Democrats take the Senate. Senator Chuck Schumer of New York, the minority leader, said it would be premature to discuss what Democrats might do if they won the Senate majority. But he did not dismiss the idea that changes could be in store should the party prevail, only to hit roadblocks erected by a Republican minority in 2021. “First we have to win the majority because if we don’t, all of it is moot,” he said in an interview after the confirmation hearing. “If we do, I’ve told my colleagues that everything is on the table if they jam through this nominee.” Democrats have been hesitant to discuss their plans should they gain power, not wanting to provide Republicans — who are playing defense around the country — with an issue that could alienate voters. Mr. Biden has pointedly declined to give his opinion on adding seats to the courts, but during a Thursday night town-hall-style interview on NBC, he said he was “open” to the idea depending on how Republicans handled Judge Barrett’s nomination. Yet even before the current fight, progressive groups were urging Democrats to be ready to ditch the filibuster, which allows the minority to block legislation by setting a 60-vote threshold for action. Activists — and some senators — say allowing the filibuster to remain in place if Democrats took control would hand minority Republicans the ability to block Mr. Biden’s agenda as they did Mr. Obama’s, maintaining the gridlock that has plagued Washington. Eliminating the 60-vote requirement would probably also be a prerequisite if Democrats decided to pursue enlarging the Supreme Court. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Biden heads to Michigan to make a pitch for the Affordable Care Act. Credit... Ruth Fremson/The New York Times Joseph R. Biden Jr. is heading to the Detroit area on Friday afternoon, where he will make a pitch for the Affordable Care Act, amplifying the message Democrats made at the Supreme Court hearings this week when they warned repeatedly that Republicans pose a direct threat to the health care law. Gretchen Whitmer, the Democratic governor of Michigan, as well Senators Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, both Democrats of Michigan, will participate in the event, the Biden campaign said. Since the death of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, Mr. Biden and Democrats in Washington have tried to tie the Supreme Court vacancy to the future of the Affordable Care Act, accusing Republicans of wanting to appoint a justice who will strike down the health care law. During the hearings this week, many Democrats, including Senator Kamala Harris, Mr. Biden’s running mate and a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, focused much of their remarks on the law, even displaying blown-up photographs of people who would be impacted if the law is struck down. That Mr. Biden will deliver his remarks in Southfield, a predominantly Black suburb of Detroit, also reflects the push his campaign is making to engage Black voters, a crucial voting bloc for Democrats who helped fuel former President Barack Obama’s victories in 2008 and 2012. The diminished enthusiasm among Black voters for Hillary Clinton in battleground states like Michigan — which Mr. Trump won by less than 11,000 votes — contributed to her loss in 2016, a warning sign for Democrats that looms over Mr. Biden’s campaign. The campaign announced on Friday that Mr. Obama would campaign on behalf of Mr. Biden in Philadelphia next Wednesday. Recent polls show that Mr. Biden has overwhelming support among Black voters. Still, some Democrats have expressed concern about Mr. Biden’s appeal to young voters of color, who are frustrated with a political system that they feel does not work for them or their families. This week, the Biden campaign began running a get-out-the-vote ad in Michigan aimed specifically at Black voters. The campaign also announced on Friday that the former basketball star Magic Johnson would be campaigning in Detroit and Lansing on Saturday. Mr. Biden’s trip to Michigan — his third in recent weeks — came a day before Mr. Trump is scheduled to hold a rally in Muskegon, on the state’s western shores. Later on Friday, the former vice president is also expected to hold a voter mobilization event in Detroit. —

Climate change is on the agenda for the final Biden-Trump debate. Credit... Ruth Fremson/The New York Times President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. are scheduled to debate one more time before Election Day, and climate change is on the agenda. Kristen Welker of NBC News, moderator of the Oct. 22 debate in Nashville, revealed on Friday the six subjects that she plans to focus on during the 90-minute matchup: the coronavirus, national security, race, leadership and “American families,” according to an announcement by the Commission on Presidential Debates. She also included climate change, which was not initially listed as a topic for the debate in Cleveland last month, although the moderator, Chris Wallace of Fox News, did end up asking questions about it. For now, the final debate is expected to be held in-person on the campus of Belmont University in Nashville. The debate commission has not yet decided whether to require independent virus tests for the candidates before they take the stage, according to a person familiar with its planning who requested anonymity to describe private talks. Mr. Trump has repeatedly refused to say if he took a test for the virus on the day of the Cleveland debate, claiming in a televised town hall on Thursday that he could not remember. The debate commission had asked each campaign to vouch for the health of their candidate before the event began; Mr. Trump tested positive for the virus two days later. The debate commission had also planned to revisit its rules and format following the unruly night in Cleveland, where Mr. Trump repeatedly interrupted Mr. Biden and Mr. Wallace. The commission has not yet made a decision on any rule changes, the person said. —

80 percent of election rulings by G.O.P.-appointed judges this year made voting harder, study says. Early voters wait in long lines at the George Pierce Park Community Center in Suwanee, Ga., on Oct. 12. Credit... Nicole Craine for The New York Times Progressive activists who want Democrats to expand the Supreme Court and pack it with additional liberal justices are mustering a new argument: Republican-appointed jurists, they say, keep using their power to make it harder for Americans to vote. Backed by a new study of how federal judges and justices have ruled in election-related cases this year, the activists argue that mainstream Democrats should view their idea as a justified way to restore and protect democracy, rather than as a radical and destabilizing escalation of partisan warfare over the judiciary. The study, the “Anti-Democracy Scorecard,” was commissioned by the group Take Back the Court, which supports expanding the judiciary. It identified 309 votes by judges and justices in 175 election-related decisions and found a partisan pattern: Republican appointees interpreted the law in a way that impeded ballot access 80 percent of the time, versus 37 percent for Democratic ones. The numbers were even more stark when limited to judges appointed by President Trump, who has had tremendous success at rapidly reshaping the judiciary. Of 60 rulings in election-related cases, 85 percent were “anti-democracy” according to the analysis. “There is a systematic pattern of Republican-appointed judges and justices tipping the scales in favor of the G.O.P. by making voting harder,” said Aaron Belkin, a political-science professor and the director of Take Back the Court. The rulings included numerous challenges to state-imposed limits on ballot access that have come under scrutiny in light of the pandemic, including requirements to obtain signatures from other people and deadlines and other limits on absentee or mail-in ballots. Mr. Belkin argued that the study results should be seen as part of a larger critique of how American democracy has become “rigged” in favor of conservatives, entrenching minority rule of the country. Even when Democrats enjoy majority support, they often lose elections, he said: The Electoral College in presidential races and the Senate’s structure disproportionately empower conservative-leaning voters in sparsely populated states. He called that an undemocratic advantage augmented by partisan gerrymandering of House districts and by Republicans’ increasing imposition of voting restrictions that tend to impede groups that lean Democratic. And conservative, Republican-appointed judges firmly control the judiciary. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Republicans still lead in Alaska, but it’s getting more competitive, a Times/Siena poll finds. Senator Dan Sullivan, a Republican, retains a polling lead over his Democratic challenger, Al Gross, in what has become an unusually close race. Credit... Pool photo by Al Drago The reliably Republican state of Alaska has soured on President Trump’s job performance, but Republicans still lead the state’s races for president, Senate and the House, according to a poll released Friday by The New York Times and Siena College. Over all, Mr. Trump leads former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 45 percent to 39 percent, with 8 percent supporting the Libertarian candidate, Jo Jorgensen. Forty-seven percent of Alaskans say they approve of how Mr. Trump is handling his job as president, while the same number disapprove. New York Times/Siena College poll of likely voters in Alaska Trump 45% Biden 39% Jorgensen 8% Other/Undecided 8% Based on a New York Times/Siena College poll of 423 likely voters from Oct. 9-14, 2020. Dan Sullivan, the incumbent Republican senator, leads the Democratic nominee, Al Gross, by 45 to 37, with 10 percent backing the Alaska Independence candidate, John Howe. And in a rematch of 2018’s House race, the Republican Don Young, the longest-serving member of Congress, leads the Democratic nominee, Alyse Galvin, 49 percent to 41 percent. The poll had a margin of error of plus or minus 5.7 percentage points. Alaska has emerged as an unlikely battleground in the late stages of the campaign, as Democrats and Republicans have rushed to run advertisements in both the House and Senate races. The state has voted Republican in every presidential election since 1964, and Republicans enjoy a significant advantage in party registration and party identification, according to the survey. But many Alaskans have turned against Mr. Trump after backing him by 15 points against Hillary Clinton four years ago, creating a potential opening for the Democrats in a state with an independent streak. Many voters are backing a minor-party candidate, so there is an unusual amount of uncertainty. —

Rupert Murdoch, the media titan, is said to be privately predicting a Biden victory. Rupert Murdoch has told several people that he thinks President Trump will be defeated in November, according to a person familiar with the matter. Credit... Mike Blake/Reuters Rupert Murdoch, the media titan behind Fox News, The New York Post and The Wall Street Journal, has told several people that he thinks former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. will beat President Trump in November, according to a person familiar with the matter. Mr. Murdoch, known for speaking freely among associates and family members, has said on several occasions he thinks Mr. Biden is likely to win the presidency, the person said. He has used the word “landslide” in some instances. Mr. Murdoch prides himself on his ability to sniff out the electorate’s political mood, but in this case he sees Mr. Trump’s character flaws as his biggest Achilles heel. The polling data is the least of it, this person said. The Daily Beast first reported on Mr. Murdoch’s political prognostications. The Trump campaign had a different take. “The president is going to be re-elected,” said Tim Murtaugh, a campaign spokesman. Mr. Murdoch supported Mr. Trump in 2016, and Fox News’s biggest prime time stars have been staunch defenders of Mr. Trump and his policies. A spokesman for Mr. Murdoch said he declined to comment. — Edmund Lee and

Officials in Ohio and Pennsylvania hired a private company to print and ship ballots. Chaos ensued. A Trump 2020 campaign flag flies below an American flag at Midwest Direct, a full-service supplier for absentee ballots, in Cleveland, Ohio, last month. Credit... Angelo Merendino for The New York Times In late summer, expecting a flood of absentee ballot requests, local election officials in 16 counties in Ohio and Pennsylvania contracted with a mailing company to handle them. But when it came time to print and ship the ballots, the private company, Midwest Direct, proved unable to handle the deluge. In Pennsylvania, for instance, nearly 30,000 ballots sent to voters in the county that includes Pittsburgh went to the wrong addresses. And several Ohio counties that expected absentee ballots printed by the company to land in voters’ mailboxes are now scrambling to print them themselves or figure out last-minute plans less than three weeks before Election Day. The Cleveland-based company’s inability to meet demand has underscored the stress that mail voting has put on the nation’s election process as the coronavirus pandemic curtails in-person voting — including in battleground states like Ohio and Pennsylvania. Throughout the campaign, President Trump has loudly and baselessly claimed that mail-in voting is rife with fraud perpetrated by Democratic partisans. But the problems cropping up across the country with mail-in voting appear to be the result of overwhelmed systems, not intentional vote-rigging. And in this case, Midwest Direct is owned by supporters of Mr. Trump who until recently flew a Trump 2020 flag above the company’s headquarters. “We have freedom to vote for who we want and support who we want,” said one of the owners, Richard Gebbie. There is no evidence Midwest Direct has done anything improper with the ballots. Election security experts said there was little any vendor could do to tamper with the integrity of absentee ballots. But the company’s customers in government are seething. Local officials said Midwest Direct offered a variety of explanations for why the promised absentee ballots were slow to be delivered, from mechanical breakdowns to a higher volume of ballot requests than anticipated. In Lucas County, Ohio, which includes Toledo, Midwest Direct sent out 60,000 ballots more than a week late, and communicated little about the cause of delays, said Pete Gerken, a county commissioner. “We have lost nine to 10 days in the process and those days are not recoverable,” Mr. Gerken said. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Michigan’s top elections official bans open carry of guns at polling places. Open-carry gun activists marched at the Michigan Capitol in Lansing last month. Credit... Nicole Hester/Ann Arbor News, via Associated Press Openly displaying firearms will be prohibited at all Michigan polls on Election Day, the state’s top election official announced Friday, as concerns of potential violence around the election continued to rise in the state and across the country. Michigan has permissive open-carry laws, and the official, Secretary of State Jocelyn Benson, a Democrat, had recently been pressed about scenarios in which supporters of President Trump could show up at polls brandishing firearms, especially after the president called for an “army” of poll watchers nationwide and alerted a group associated with white supremacy, the Proud Boys, to “stand by.” “Prohibiting the open-carry of firearms in areas where citizens cast their ballots is necessary to ensure every voter is protected,” Ms. Benson said in a statement. More than a dozen far-right extremists were arrested last week and accused by the F.B.I. of plotting to kidnap Michigan’s Democratic governor, Gretchen Whitmer, and overthrow the government. Two of the arrested men were among those who carried military-style rifles inside the State Capitol in April to protest Ms. Whitmer’s lockdown orders to limit the coronavirus. Mr. Trump seemed to egg the protesters on in a tweet, writing, “Liberate Michigan!” Ms. Benson’s announcement said that Michigan’s attorney general and State Police director would enforce the ban. While poll watching by representatives of political parties is permitted in Michigan, as in other states, intimidating or deterring voters is a felony. Ms. Benson’s order, sent to election clerks statewide, clarifies that the open carry of a firearm falls within that realm. Under the order, the open carry of a firearm is prohibited in a polling place, in any hallway used by voters to enter or exit, or within 100 feet of any entrance to a building in which a polling place is located. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Ad Watch A Lincoln Project ad frames a choice: a president who demeans women or one who respects them. President Trump’s rude and demeaning comments to and about women are no secret. Just last week, he called Senator Kamala Harris, the Democratic vice-presidential nominee, a “monster.” A new ad from the Lincoln Project urges voters to consider what it would be like to have a different kind of president — a man, it suggests, who actually respects women. The Message The ad sharply contrasts Mr. Trump with Joseph R. Biden Jr., elevating Mr. Biden’s selection of Ms. Harris as his running mate as proof that he “doesn’t just value a female voice but chooses one to be his right-hand woman.” The 90-second ad opens with two directives: “Imagine a young girl looking in the mirror, searching for role models in the world to give her hope that one day she, too, can make a difference. Now imagine how she feels when she watches women being verbally attacked.” Cue a series of clips that show Mr. Trump belittling women, including female reporters. “Your daughters are listening,” the ad says. Then as the music soars, the ad encourages viewers to “imagine a different future for her” — one with Ms. Harris as Mr. Biden’s “right-hand woman.” It closes with a note of hope that doubles as a warning: “Your actions on Nov. 3 will define who she sees.” The ad does not cover the sharply divergent views both men — and both parties — have on issues that affect women, including women’s reproductive rights. Fact Check Mr. Trump is known for his sexist remarks, and the clips the ad shows are real. Mr. Biden, on the other hand, has long styled himself a champion of women. He still refers to the Violence Against Women Act as his proudest legislative achievement and he said months before he selected Ms. Harris as his running mate that he would name a woman to his ticket. Where It’s Running A slightly modified 60-second version of the ad is running nationally on Fox News, MSNBC and CNN, according to Advertising Analytics. It began airing on Thursday morning. The Takeaway The 2016 Democratic presidential nominee, Hillary Clinton, ran a similar ad four years ago. It did not work. And the Lincoln Project is a group of Never Trump Republicans founded almost exclusively by men, so this ad has a tone somewhat equivalent to when men stand up and say “as a father of daughters” to denounce bad behavior by other men. Still, the juxtaposition between the two candidates is powerful and likely to resonate with voters who are tired of Mr. Trump’s rhetoric. —

Trump travels to Florida and Georgia today, and Biden speaks in Detroit. President Trump at a rally in Greenville, N.C., on Thursday Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times There are 18 days until Election Day. Here are the schedules of the presidential and vice-presidential candidates for Friday, Oct. 16. All times are Eastern time. President Trump 1:30 p.m.: Speaks about protecting older Americans in Fort Meyers, Fla. 4 p.m.: Holds a rally in Ocala, Fla. 7 p.m.: Holds a rally in Macon, Ga. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 2:30 p.m.: Speaks in Southfield, Mich, on affordable health care. 4:30 p.m.: Meets virtually with faith leaders. 6:30 p.m.: Appears at a voter mobilization event in Detroit, Mich. Vice President Mike Pence 1:30 p.m.: Delivers remarks at a campaign event in Selma, N.C. Senator Kamala Harris Participates in a virtual event on finance; time T.B.D.

We fact-checked Trump and Biden’s town hall events. In their televised town halls on Thursday night, President Trump continued his pattern of exaggerated, misleading and false statements on many topics, while former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. stuck closer to the facts. Mr. Trump continued to state without any factual basis that the coronavirus pandemic will end soon, and repeated his false statements that most people who wear masks get sick. He also dodged repeated questions about whether he had a negative coronavirus test immediately before the first presidential debate. The president’s characterizations of the economy’s performance under his administration were inflated, and he again claimed to have done more for African-Americans than any of his predecessors except for Lincoln, an assertion that historians say is not accurate. Mr. Biden got his numbers wrong on troop levels in Afghanistan relative to when he left office four years ago and mischaracterized an element of the Green New Deal, but generally avoided clear misstatements. A team of journalists from The New York Times fact-checked both candidates in their separate appearances, providing context and analysis.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story