--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/15/multimedia/15elections-briefing-harris2/15elections-briefing-harris2-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  2020 Election Live Updates: Harris Cancels In-Person Campaigning Through Sunday After Staff Member Tests Positive 
description: > 
  ET 2020 Election Live Updates: Harris Cancels In-Person Campaigning Through Sunday After Staff Member Tests Positive Kamala Harris’s communications director and a flight crew member tested positive, but Ms. Harris tested negative.“I will be transparent with you about any test results that I do receive,” Ms. Harris wrote on Twitter on Thursday.Ms. Allen and the flight crew member were on a flight with Ms. Harris on Oct. 8, the day after the vice-presidential debate.Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris campaigned together in Arizona that day but arrived in the state separately.That Mr. Biden would have a cash advantage over Mr. Trump was hard to imagine earlier this year. 
date: 1602775168.5823784 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 15, 2020, 10:47 a.m. ET Oct. 15, 2020, 10:47 a.m. ET 2020 Election Live Updates: Harris Cancels In-Person Campaigning Through Sunday After Staff Member Tests Positive Kamala Harris’s communications director and a flight crew member tested positive, but Ms. Harris tested negative. President Trump and Joe Biden are holding dueling town hall events tonight in lieu of a debate. Mr. Biden’s campaign is flush with cash after raising $383 million in September. RIGHT NOW Harris cancels in-person campaigning through Sunday after her communications director tests positive for the coronavirus.

Harris cancels in-person campaigning through Sunday after her communications director tests positive for the coronavirus. Senator Kamala Harris was scheduled to hold three events in North Carolina on Thursday but has canceled them. Credit... Hilary Swift for The New York Times The Biden campaign halted Senator Kamala Harris’s in-person campaigning through Sunday after two people who had traveled with her tested positive for the coronavirus, the campaign announced Thursday morning. Ms. Harris’s communications director, Liz Allen, and a flight crew member tested positive, the campaign said. Ms. Harris herself tested negative on Wednesday. “Senator Harris was not in close contact, as defined by the C.D.C., with either of these individuals during the two days prior to their positive tests; as such, there is no requirement for quarantine,” the Biden campaign manager, Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, said in a statement. “Regardless, out of an abundance of caution and in line with our campaign’s commitment to the highest levels of precaution, we are canceling Senator Harris’s travel through Sunday.” Ms. Harris had been scheduled to campaign in North Carolina on Thursday and in Ohio on Friday. She intends to return to the campaign trail Monday, the statement said. “I will be transparent with you about any test results that I do receive,” Ms. Harris wrote on Twitter on Thursday. “In the meantime, remember: wear a mask, practice social distancing, and wash your hands regularly. It is possible to stop the spread.” The campaign said it was also canceling travel on Thursday for Ms. Harris’s husband, Douglas Emhoff, but that he would resume campaigning on Friday. The campaign has begun contact tracing, the statement said, “to notify everyone who came into contact with the individuals during the potential infection window.” In a conference call with reporters, Ms. O’Malley Dillon said that Ms. Harris would be tested again on Thursday and that Joseph R. Biden Jr. would proceed with his schedule. He is slated to appear at a town hall event in Philadelphia that will be broadcast on ABC tonight. Mr. Biden’s last known test was on Monday; the campaign said he tested negative. “He was not in close contact with either of these individuals,” Ms. O’Malley Dillon said. Ms. Allen and the flight crew member were on a flight with Ms. Harris on Oct. 8, the day after the vice-presidential debate. Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris campaigned together in Arizona that day but arrived in the state separately. Ms. Allen and the flight crew member later “attended personal, non-campaign events,” Ms. O’Malley Dillon said in her statement. They were subsequently required to be tested. All other staff members who were on the flight with them have tested negative since Oct. 8, the campaign said. — Thomas Kaplan and

Trump could have had two more debates to try to alter the race. Now he has just one. President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. during the first presidential debate late last month. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. were supposed to debate tonight. But Mr. Trump backed out after the Commission on Presidential Debates ruled that the event could be held only virtually, given the president’s coronavirus diagnosis. The two men will instead engage in a Battle of the Town Halls, appearing in rival events on different networks. That’s a far cry from a debate, and most analysts assume that it’s unlikely to change minds. Mr. Trump’s supporters will presumably tune in to the president on NBC, while Mr. Biden’s supporters will check out their candidate on ABC. Since the appearances are at the same time, 8 p.m. Eastern, it will take a dedicated voter to attempt a compare-and-contrast. What that means is that the third debate, in Nashville on Oct. 22, may be Mr. Trump’s last, best chance to change the course of a campaign that is moving against him. It is the final scheduled set piece, all but guaranteed to draw a huge audience and extensive coverage. Unlike, say, tonight. Mr. Trump’s performance at the first debate was marked by his hectoring of Mr. Biden and the moderator, Chris Wallace, and was widely criticized. Polls suggest it cost him some support. From that perspective, Mr. Trump’s decision to pull out of the next one, rather than just engage Mr. Biden virtually, mystified members of both parties, particularly because Mr. Biden, given his polling lead, has little incentive to debate again. Republicans had been hoping that tonight could be a mulligan. Now it’s down to Nashville. “He needs a good debate, practicing common courtesy and restraint, and allowing Biden to speak,” said Charlie Black, a Republican consultant and veteran of presidential campaigns. This not ideal for Mr. Trump. Historically, third debates do not have a major influence on the course of a campaign. By the time this one happens, Election Day will be less than two weeks away. Millions of people will already have voted. Even if Mr. Trump heeds the advice of Republicans on changing his debate tone, there might not be enough undecided people in even that huge audience to make a difference. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Obama warns that ‘insane’ QAnon conspiracy theories, stoked by Trump, are becoming the Republican ‘mainstream.’ Former President Barack Obama plans to campaign for Joseph R. Biden Jr., his former vice president, in the final weeks before the election. Credit... Democratic National Convention, via Associated Press Former President Barack Obama on Wednesday shrugged off President Trump’s calls for him to be prosecuted — and warned that the “insane” QAnon conspiracy theory movement was infiltrating the mainstream of the Republican Party and infecting public discourse. Mr. Obama plans to hit the road on behalf of his former vice president, Joseph R. Biden Jr., over the next two weeks for socially-distanced appearances in battleground states to encourage Democrats during early voting, according to people familiar with his plans. Mr. Obama gave a preview of his closing argument in his appearance Wednesday on “Pod Save America,” a popular podcast hosted by two of his former White House advisers, Jon Favreau and Tommy Vietor — appearing relaxed and tie-less, but stone-serious, in a Zoom interview. Near the start, Mr. Vietor asked Mr. Obama what he thought about Mr. Trump “tweeting that the attorney general should indict you or indict Vice President Biden for spying on his campaign.” Mr. Obama mimicked the response Republicans have often offered in response to Mr. Trump’s social media exploits: “Yeah. ‘I didn’t read the tweet’,” he replied. He went on to discuss the larger implications of incendiary comments like Mr. Trump’s. “One of the central foundation stones of a democracy is the idea that you do not, you do not allow the politicization of the criminal justice system, the intelligence system, the military. Right?” he said. “That is stuff that you keep out of politics right now. Because it’s too dangerous.” He said an important question after the election, even if Mr. Biden wins, “is whether you start seeing the Republican Party restore some sense of, ‘Here are norms that we can’t breach,’ because he’s breached all of them,” Mr. Obama said of Mr. Trump. “They have not said to him, ‘This is too far.’” Mr. Obama pointed to the increasing proliferation of candidates, including Mr. Trump, peddling baseless theories — most recently the debunked notion that the killing of Osama bin Laden was staged. “When you look at insane conspiracy theories like QAnon seeping into the mainstream of the Republican Party, what that tells you is that there are no more guardrails within that media ecosystem,” he said. “How do we re-establish some baselines of truth?” Drawing implicit comparisons with Mr. Trump, Mr. Obama said that in addition to having respect for institutions and expertise, Mr. Biden also had the character that voters should look for in presidents. “Are they people who instinctively care about the underdog?” he asked. “Are they people who are able to see the world through somebody else’s eyes and stand in their shoes? Are they people who are instinctively generous in spirit? And that is who Joe is.” Addressing listeners who would have preferred a more progressive candidate, Mr. Obama said that the first priority was to ensure Mr. Biden’s victory, but that they should continue to press their agenda after the election. “The caution I always have for progressives,” he said, “is making sure that, as you push for the most you could get, that at a certain point you say, ‘All right, you know what? Let’s get this done and then let’s move on to fight another day.’” — Glenn Thrush and

Trump travels to N.C. and Pence heads to Miami. Tonight, Biden and Trump will hold dueling televised town hall events. Vice President Mike Pence leaves the stage after he and Senator Kamala Harris faced off in a debate at the University of Utah. Credit... Ruth Fremson/The New York Times There are 19 days until Election Day. Here are the schedules of the presidential and vice-presidential candidates for Thursday, Oct. 15. All times are Eastern time. President Trump 1 p.m.: Holds a rally in Greenville, N.C. 8 p.m.: Participates in an NBC town hall event in Miami. Former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 8 p.m.: Participates in an ABC town hall event in Philadelphia. Vice President Mike Pence 12:30 p.m.: Visits the Memorial Cubano in Miami Senator Kamala Harris Events canceled.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Biden raised $383 million in September, entering October with $432 million in the bank. Joe Biden had 1.1 million new donors in September and 5.5 million donors overall. Credit... Chang W. Lee/The New York Times Joseph R. Biden Jr.’s campaign announced raising $383 million in September, combined with the Democratic National Committee and their shared committees, and entered October with $432 million cash in the bank, his campaign announced on Wednesday. “That’s more than I’ve raised in my whole life!” Mr. Biden marveled in a short video posted on Twitter on Wednesday evening. The total means that Mr. Biden has raised nearly $750 million since Aug. 1, in back-to-back months of record-breaking hauls (he raised $364.5 million in August) that have delivered him a significant financial advantage over President Trump in the closing weeks of the campaign. Mr. Biden has used those additional funds to spend more on television than Mr. Trump in the key battleground states and to stretch the map, with some ads now even airing in Texas. That Mr. Biden would have a cash advantage over Mr. Trump was hard to imagine earlier this year. The former vice president had struggled to raise money online for most of the 2020 primary, and the president’s re-election campaign and the Republican National Committee entered April with a roughly $187 million edge over Mr. Biden and the D.N.C. The reversal of financial fortunes is one of the more consequential developments of the general election. Jennifer O’Malley Dillon, Mr. Biden’s campaign manager, said there were 1.1 million new donors in September and 5.5 million donors over all. She said that $203 million of the total had come online, about the same amount as in August. The biggest share came on the final day of September, the day after last month’s debate, when officials had previously said the campaign raised $24.1 million. Mr. Biden had entered September with $466 million cash on hand combined with the D.N.C. and their joint operations, compared with $325 million for Mr. Trump and the Republican National Committee. The Trump campaign has yet to announce its September fund-raising haul. —

Tyler Perry is helping a $500,000 effort to mobilize Black voters in Florida. Tyler Perry, the entertainment mogul, is partnering with a nonpartisan group to increase Black voter engagement in Florida. Credit... Global Citizen's One World: Together at Home The entertainment mogul Tyler Perry will help fund a $500,000 Black voter mobilization effort in Florida, continuing a growing trend of electoral involvement from Black celebrities and athletes ahead of the election. Mr. Perry has partnered with Equal Ground Education Fund, a nonpartisan Florida group that works to increase Black voter engagement throughout the state. The effort, “Park & Praise,” which is to be formally announced today, will target 25 counties and 250,000 Black residents including in urban hubs such as Broward County and Miami-Dade County. The “Park & Praise” series will set up events where voters can drop off mail-in ballots while hearing from faith leaders, musical acts and gospel choirs. The effort is an attempt to bring the “Souls to the Polls” model to the age of social distancing. In previous elections, churchgoing Black voters have been a reliable base for the Democratic Party, taking particular advantage of things like early voting after a Sunday service. “Despite Florida’s historical disenfranchisement of Black voters, our voices will be heard whether we vote by mail or early,” said Jasmine Burney-Clark, the founder of the Equal Ground Education Fund. “Our work to provide robust voter education and ensure that accurate information reaches our communities is the highest priority and is exactly what this partnership with Tyler Perry is going to do.” Mr. Perry is the latest Black celebrity to join efforts to get out the vote. Another campaign, led by the basketball superstar LeBron James, called “More Than a Vote,” is working to address the shortage of poll workers in Black communities in swing states. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Trump’s language grows more heated, experts worry about political violence. As the election nears, President Trump has used his rallies to attack his perceived enemies, both inside and outside his administration. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times The arrest of more than a dozen right-wing extremists who are accused of targeting the governors of Michigan and Virginia is only the latest example of threats of violence, in some cases egged on by President Trump, that loom over the final weeks of a historically divisive race. In rural Iowa, Laura Hubka, the Democratic chair of Howard County, recently took out a concealed-carry gun permit after signs for Democratic candidates in her region were vandalized with bullet holes and she was personally threatened, she said. In central Wisconsin, Tom Stepanek’s wife sat him down last month at the kitchen table and warned him that the president might not accept a peaceful transfer of power if he lost in November. “Are you sure you want to be doing this?” she asked her husband, who is the chair of the Waushara County Democrats and had also been threatened. “You’re going to be a target here,” she told him. With polls showing the president behind Mr. Biden nationally and in key states, Mr. Trump has descended into rants about perceived enemies, both inside and outside his administration, triggering in his staunchest supporters such fears for the outcome — possibly a “stolen” election, maybe a coup by the far left — that he is emboldening them to disrupt the voting process, according to national security experts and law enforcement officials. National security experts said that American elections are usually nonevents for law enforcement, and that transitions from one president to the next were typically a peaceful pageant of democracy. “But not this year,” said Chuck Wexler, the executive director of the Police Executive Research Forum, who said that multiple police chiefs were extending patrol shifts in the weeks before Election Day. “This year is unlike any year.” — Trip Gabriel, Zolan Kanno-Youngs and