--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/12/multimedia/12elections-briefing-gaearlyvoting/12elections-briefing-gaearlyvoting-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  2020 Election Live Updates: ‘Record’ Turnout for Early Voting in Georgia as Biden Campaigns in Ohio 
description: > 
  ET 2020 Election Live Updates: ‘Record’ Turnout for Early Voting in Georgia as Biden Campaigns in Ohio Joe Biden will speak in Toledo and Cincinnati and President Trump, returning to the campaign trail, will travel to Florida.— Stephanie Saul andBiden will build on his economic populist message and court Trump voters in Ohio.Mr. Biden is expected to promote his economic message to “Build Back Better” as he delivers a speech in Toledo.“Her faith should not be considered,” Mr. Biden, himself a churchgoing Catholic, told reporters Monday morning, according to a pool report.“No one’s faith should be questioned,” Mr. Biden added, framing the Supreme Court battle as one about protecting access to health care. 
date: 1602524696.5588198 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 12, 2020, 1:09 p.m. ET Oct. 12, 2020, 1:09 p.m. ET 2020 Election Live Updates: ‘Record’ Turnout for Early Voting in Georgia as Biden Campaigns in Ohio Joe Biden will speak in Toledo and Cincinnati and President Trump, returning to the campaign trail, will travel to Florida. Senate hearings for Judge Amy Coney Barrett have begun. RIGHT NOW California investigates reports of illegal ballot-drop boxes that could be used for fraud.

Voters flock to the polls as Georgia opens early voting, despite technical glitches. Video Hundreds of people lined up early Monday morning in Georgia to vote in the presidential election. Some voters said on Twitter there were 90-minute delays as multiple machines had to be rebooted. Credit Credit... Nicole Craine for The New York Times Fired-up voters across Georgia descended upon polling sites in record-breaking numbers on Monday — the first day of early, in-person balloting — as state and local officials reported glitches with the state’s new and troubled touch-screen voting system. In Atlanta and its suburbs, long lines of socially distanced voters began forming in the pre-dawn hours, after a federal judge rejected a last-minute attempt to replace the $104 million system with paper ballots until its problems could be sorted out. “It’s an awesome thing. We thought we were going to get here early,” said Norman Robinson III, as he stood in a line snaking more than a half-mile long outside his early voting site at The Gallery at South DeKalb, a mall near Atlanta. “My parents were jailed in college during the 1960s for exercising their rights to vote,” added Mr. Robinson, an education administrator at a school specializing in science technology and math. “This is in my blood to make sure I honor and continue their fight for voices to be heard.” A spokesman for Brad Raffensperger, the Georgia secretary of state, said Monday that the state was seeing “record turnout for early voting because of excitement and enthusiasm about the upcoming election.” But the snaking lines were not entirely the result of voter fervor. As lines formed at State Farm Arena in metropolitan Atlanta, problems emerged with electronic equipment there, according to Jessica Corbitt-Dominguez, a spokeswoman for Fulton County, which includes the city. Voters complained on Twitter of 90-minute delays as multiple machines had to be rebooted. Aklima Khondoker, the Georgia director of the voting rights group All Voting Is Local, said that electronic poll pads on which voters check in had been creating problems around the state. “We’ve seen over 10 counties where this is happening,” she said. In a ruling Sunday night, U.S. District Judge Amy Totenberg acknowledged the equipment had problems, but held that it was too late to revamp the voting system. The state did not have the capacity “to turn on a dime and switch to a full-scale hand-marked paper ballot system she wrote, rejecting arguments by the Coalition for Good Governance who said that potential security holes in the system endangered the election’s integrity. Georgia’s new voting system is a hybrid. The machines do not actually store ballots; voters fill out their preferences on the touch-screen, the results are printed out and scanned, and then they are stored in locked boxes. Judge Totenberg directed election officials to beef up efforts to review ballot images to ensure that software does not miss votes before expected runoff elections in January. Jill Biden, the wife of the Democratic nominee, Joseph R. Biden Jr., was scheduled to appear in Atlanta on Monday with Stacey Abrams, the former Georgia lawmaker who founded a voting rights organization, to encourage Democrats to vote early. Georgians did not seem to need much coaxing to show up, however. “I wish I had brought a chair,” said Everlean Rutherford, 39, a government employee, who stood in line for almost hour outside of her polling place in Marietta before casting her ballot. “One of the poll workers said this is the most that they’ve ever had for early voting,” she said. — Stephanie Saul and

Biden will build on his economic populist message and court Trump voters in Ohio. Video transcript Back bars 0:00 / 1:43 - 0:00 transcript Biden Pitches to Blue-Collar Workers in Pennsylvania Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee for president, said that his economic plan would raise taxes on the wealthy to create unionized infrastructure jobs and that he would not ban fracking. “The fact is the president can only see the world from Park Avenue. I see it from Scranton. I see it from Claymont for real. You all know what I’m talking about. You all see it from Erie. That’s why my program to build back better is focused on working people.” “And I’m not going to raise taxes on anybody making less than 400 grand. But, but, you won’t pay a penny more. But those making more than that, I’m going to ask them to finally begin to pay their fair share. I’m going to ask the big corporations and the wealthy to begin to pay. Ninety-one of the Fortune 500 companies today pay zero tax. You hear me? Zero tax. How many of you pay zero tax?” “So I’m going to raise — the money I’m going to raise, we’re going to allow us to invest in working people and grow the middle class back and make sure everyone comes along this time. My plan is about making the kinds of investments that are going to stimulate economic growth.” “We’re going to fix water pipes — pipelines, replace lead pipes, upgrade treatment plants. We’re going to construct 1.5 million new affordable housing units. We’re going to build a hundred billion dollars rebuilding our schools. We’re going to retrofit — which we started our administration — four million buildings, including advanced heating and cooling systems. There’s going to be such a race to job creation for unions that you’re not going to believe it.” “The fact is that every time the word climate change comes up, Donald Trump thinks hoax. Every time it comes up, I think jobs. Let me be clear: No matter how many lies he tells, I am not, not, not banning fracking, period.” Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic nominee for president, said that his economic plan would raise taxes on the wealthy to create unionized infrastructure jobs and that he would not ban fracking. Credit Credit... Chang W. Lee/The New York Times Almost four years after Ohio so fully embraced President Trump that many Democrats wrote the state off for the 2020 election, Joseph R. Biden Jr. is headed there on Monday, aiming to energize the Democratic base and to court white working-class Americans who supported Mr. Trump last time, powering his wins in Ohio and across the Industrial Midwest in 2016. Mr. Biden is expected to promote his economic message to “Build Back Better” as he delivers a speech in Toledo. He is then slated to attend a voter mobilization event in Cincinnati. It’s a pitch he also pushed over the weekend, swinging through a county in Pennsylvania that voted for Donald Trump in 2016 and Barack Obama in 2012, and making a direct appeal to union and blue-collar workers on Saturday afternoon, in a speech laden with economic populist tones. “There’s going to be such a race for job creation for unions, you’re not going to believe it,” Mr. Biden said there. “The only power we have is union power. You’re the guys who keep the barbarians on the other side of the gate from taking everything.” Mr. Biden has been leaning into a more populist message in recent weeks, pitching his campaign as Scranton versus Park Avenue, a reference that contrasts his hometown in Pennsylvania with Mr. Trump’s privileged background. His trip to Ohio is his latest effort to cut into the margins of Mr. Trump’s base. After the first presidential debate, in Cleveland, Mr. Biden launched a train tour that took him through eastern Ohio and western Pennsylvania, regions that swung heavily in Mr. Trump’s direction in 2016. But many Democrats still view flipping Ohio as a stretch compared with other places, and the state has not been a central focus of Mr. Biden’s team throughout the race, though officials stress that they want to create as many pathways to electoral victory as possible. “Biden has a real opportunity,” said David Pepper, the chairman of the Ohio Democratic Party, going on to reference the state’s Democratic senator, who has managed to win statewide despite Republican gains. “If he can come anywhere close to how Sherrod Brown did in those areas, he has a good chance of winning Ohio.” — Katie Glueck and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

California investigates reports of illegal ballot-drop boxes that could be used for fraud. An official mail-in ballot drop box outside a subway station in Los Angeles. Unofficial, illegal drop boxes have popped up in parts of California. Credit... Mario Tama/Getty Images California election officials are investigating the placement of unofficial drop boxes for mail-in balloting in Los Angeles, Fresno and Orange counties — illegal sites that could be used to identify and eliminate the ballots of unsuspecting voters. California’s secretary of state, Alex Padilla, sent a memo late Sunday urging county elections officials to find and remove unauthorized boxes in order to “guarantee the security and chain of custody of vote-by-mail ballots deposited.” In his memo, Mr. Padilla reminded local officials that creating an illegal polling site was a felony punishable by up to four years in prison. “Operating unofficial ballot drop boxes — especially those misrepresented as official drop boxes — is not just misleading to voters, it’s a violation of state law,” Mr. Padilla, a Democrat, said in a statement. “Never hand your ballot over to someone you don’t trust,” he warned voters. “Official county drop boxes are built with specific security protections, and ballots are retrieved only by designated county personnel.” Mr. Padilla’s office received a report on Saturday that a metal box with a misleading sign suggesting that it was an official site to drop off mail-in ballots had been placed in front of the Freedom’s Way Baptist Church in Castaic, northwest of Los Angeles. And last week, a supporter of the Orange County Republican congressional candidate Michelle Steel posted a picture of himself on Twitter dropping off a ballot at a gray metal cabinet onto which someone had taped a sign reading “Official Ballot Drop off Box.” It was not an official site, elections officials said. In the post, the supporter of Ms. Steel, Jordan Tygh, a regional field director for the California Republican Party, flashes a thumbs-up over the caption, “Doing my part and voting early,” according to the Orange County Register, which first reported on the use of the boxes. The post has since been deleted. The paper also reported that the Fresno County Republican Party had posted on its website a list of “secure” ballot collection locations — including the party headquarters and local gun shops — that were not on the state’s list of official county drop box sites. The page has been removed. The secretary of state’s office has not alleged that operatives from either party have engaged in the selective harvesting of ballots placed in the illegal boxes. Messages left with the state and the Fresno County Republican Party offices were not immediately returned. — Glenn Thrush and

As Judge Barrett’s confirmation hearings begin, Trump will return to the campaign trail. Judge Amy Coney Barrett met with Vice President Mike Pence and Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, in the Capitol last month. Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times The event that conservatives hoped would reshape the 2020 election is upon us: The Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Judge Amy Coney Barrett began Monday morning and promise to last most of the week. Republicans have regarded her nomination as an opportunity to reinvigorate voters on the right and shift focus away from the coronavirus pandemic. So far, Judge Barrett’s appointment has not worked out that way. The White House event at which President Trump announced her election became a major transmission point for the coronavirus — Dr. Anthony S. Fauci called it a “super-spreader event” — and at least two Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee have been infected. Mr. Trump’s bout with the disease, and rising case counts across most of the country, have relegated the Supreme Court fight to the political background. There is still hope within the G.O.P. that Democrats might fumble the hearings in a way that could be politically useful — a concern some Democrats share, given the apparently diminished capacities of Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the judiciary committee. And at the very least, the hearings give Republicans something to talk about besides Mr. Trump and the virus, even if that is where most voters remain focused. That could be no small favor in red states where Senate seats are at stake. It is unlikely, however, that Mr. Trump will cooperate with efforts to shift the spotlight this week. He is holding a rally tonight in Sanford, Fla. — his first appearance outside Washington since he revealed he tested positive for the coronavirus, even though unanswered questions remain about his medical condition, including about the continued presence of the coronavirus in his body and his ability to transmit it to others. And he plans to campaign in Pennsylvania, Iowa and North Carolina in the coming days. The question for Democrats — not just Joseph R. Biden Jr. but the party’s whole ticket — may be how much time and political capital they will put into making a strenuous public case against Judge Barrett, at a moment when Mr. Trump continues to serve up generous quantities of easier political fodder for an election that is only weeks away. —

Biden says Barrett’s faith should be off-limits. Video transcript Back bars 0:00 / 0:38 - 0:00 transcript Biden Says Judge Barrett’s Faith Should Not Be ‘Questioned’ Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic presidential nominee, told reporters Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s Catholic faith should not be a factor during Supreme Court confirmation hearings. I don’t think there’s any questions about her faith. You may remember I got in trouble when we were running against the senator who is a Mormon, the governor, OK, and I took him on. Anybody — no one’s faith should be questioned. But I tell you what, we’re already in the midst of a real fight here. Everyone knows in 28 days, 20 million Americans may lose their health care. This nominee said she wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. The president wants to get rid of the Affordable Care Act. Let’s keep our eye on the ball. This is about whether or not in one — less than one month — Americans are going to lose their health insurance. Thank you. Joseph R. Biden Jr., the Democratic presidential nominee, told reporters Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s Catholic faith should not be a factor during Supreme Court confirmation hearings. Credit Credit... Chang W. Lee/The New York Times Joseph R. Biden Jr. said Monday that Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s Catholic faith should not be a factor in her Supreme Court confirmation hearing. “Her faith should not be considered,” Mr. Biden, himself a churchgoing Catholic, told reporters Monday morning, according to a pool report. “No one’s faith should be questioned,” Mr. Biden added, framing the Supreme Court battle as one about protecting access to health care. Mr. Biden has repeatedly sought to make the court battle about preserving the Affordable Care Act — which the court is slated to consider a week after Election Day — rather than about Judge Barrett’s conservative beliefs. “Let’s keep our eye on the ball,” he said. “This is about whether or not, in less than one month, Americans are going to lose their health insurance.” —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Why many Latino evangelicals back Trump, despite his anti-immigration policies. The evangelical congregation that Pastor Jose Rivera leads in Phoenix is divided on President Trump. Credit... Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times At the Church of God of Prophecy in Phoenix, hundreds come each Sunday for two hours of worship in Spanish. They share passages from the Bible, sing and embrace each other tightly. The evangelical congregation, led for nearly 25 years by Pastor Jose Rivera, is nearly all Latino, the vast majority with roots in Mexico. They are not unlike the people President Trump tried to demonize from the outset of his first campaign, or all that different from those he is trying to keep out with his border wall and hard-line immigration policies. But they do not agree on Mr. Trump — some see him as a savior, others as a predator. By Mr. Rivera’s estimate, somewhere between a quarter and a third of his congregants support Mr. Trump, a rate that is echoed in national polls. When Pastor Rivera looks at his congregation, he sees a microcosm of the Latino vote in the United States: how complex it is, and how each party’s attempt to solidify crucial support can fall short. There are not clear ideological lines here between liberals and conservatives. Conversations with dozens of members of Rivera’s congregation and with other Hispanic evangelicals around the country over the course of the year make clear that religious identity is often a more fundamental part of their political affiliation than ethnic identity. “I believe that he’s just doing the courageous things based on Scripture, and making our country become what it should become and bring us all our blessings,” said Carlos Ruiz Esparza, 52, a steadfast supporter of the president who regularly worships with Mr. Rivera. Latinos are projected to be the largest minority to vote in the presidential election this year, with 32 million eligible voters who could play a decisive role in who wins the White House. And while Hispanic evangelicals make up a small slice of the electorate, they are key to Mr. Trump’s consistent support from roughly one-third of Hispanic voters, particularly in battleground states like Florida and Arizona. Mr. Rivera, who has been a bishop for the last three decades, said, “They try to present him as the messiah, but if he is the messiah, he is not doing what we are supposed to do.” —

Anti-Trump G.O.P. groups occupy a crowded, competitive space. President Trump’s opponents within the Republican party are eager to be listed as having been on the right side of history. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times The two biggest groups on the anti-Trump Republican landscape, the Lincoln Project and Republican Voters Against Trump, have become multimillion-dollar operations that conduct their own sophisticated data research and polling. Then there’s the Bravery Project, led by Joe Walsh, a former Republican congressman from Illinois; Stand Up Republic, which recently introduced a spinoff, Christians Against Trumpism & Political Extremism; the Republican Political Alliance for Integrity and Reform, known as Repair and led by two former top Trump administration officials; and 43 Alumni for Joe Biden, made up of members of President George W. Bush’s administration. And don’t forget about the short-lived Right Side PAC, founded by Anthony Scaramucci, the former White House communications director, and Matthew Borges, a former chairman of the Ohio Republican Party. The group formed in June with the mission of turning out Republican voters for Mr. Biden in battleground states, but shut down after Mr. Borges was arrested on federal corruption charges. Mr. Scaramucci has since given the money to the Lincoln Project and teamed up with Repair. The crowded, competitive arena of party-less anti-Trump Republicans is, in some ways, a product of the fact that not having a party means not having any clear leader. Groups with similar missions engage in little coordination or sharing of resources. The groups’ leaders say this is all fine, and organic. Mr. Schott’s competitors in the conservative anti-Trump space say there is little downside to another player spending $1 million on advertising criticizing the president. But what is less clear is whether more coordination among anti-Trump Republicans — who harbor deep worries about what would happen to the country if Mr. Trump were re-elected, and are eager to be seen as having been on the right side of history — would better serve the collective project to unseat the president. “The Never Trump movement is having a moment,” said Lucy Caldwell, a Republican strategist who advised Mr. Walsh’s failed primary challenge to Mr. Trump this year. “But on the whole, the last four years have been a lot of throwing spaghetti against the wall and seeing what sticks, and a lot of head chefs in the kitchen.” —

The financial record of Tommy Tuberville, the Alabama Republican Senate hopeful, raises questions about his judgment. A review by The New York Times found that Tommy Tuberville, who is leading Senator Doug Jones in the polls in Alabama, has been involved with at least three people who were later convicted of financial fraud. Credit... Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times Tommy Tuberville, the Republican candidate for Senate in Alabama, is running in large measure on his experience in college football’s Southeastern Conference, known as the S.E.C., where he coached Auburn University. But he has had experience with another S.E.C., the Securities and Exchange Commission, and other financial regulators. A review by The New York Times found that Mr. Tuberville, who leads Senator Doug Jones, a Democrat, in the polls, has a history of involvement with at least three people who were later convicted of financial fraud in what were described as Ponzi schemes. Mr. Tuberville was largely seen as a victim and never charged with a crime. In two episodes, Mr. Tuberville lost millions of dollars. A third was more minor, when Mr. Tuberville and his wife, Suzanne, bought a home through a company created by a lawyer who was later convicted of running a real estate-related Ponzi scheme. The Times review included a small charitable foundation created by Mr. Tuberville, finding that its tax records indicated that less than a third of its proceeds went to the veterans’ causes it was set up to advance. The foundation also had bookkeeping issues. The review raised questions about Mr. Tuberville’s judgment and financial acumen. While he has said on the campaign trail that he hoped to serve on the “banking finance” committee — the Senate has separate, and prestigious, banking and finance committees — he has at times undercut his own qualifications. Regarding an ill-fated hedge fund venture, he once told a reporter, “I’m not smart enough to understand all the numbers.” In a statement, Mr. Tuberville’s campaign largely deflected financial questions. “Doug Jones, Chuck Schumer, and other liberal, Swamp Democrats are spreading lies in an attempt to smear Coach Tuberville’s career, accomplishments, and charitable service,” the statement said, adding, “Coach is focused solely upon serving his fellow Alabamians and faithfully representing their conservative values, beliefs, and desires.” In one fraudulent scheme, Mr. Tuberville was an investor and a 50/50 owner of a financial firm, TS Capital, that was shut down by state and federal regulators. A 2012 complaint from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission said that Mr. Tuberville’s partner, John David Stroud, racked up trading losses of nearly $1.2 million and misappropriated nearly $2.3 million for “car payments, travel expenses, entertainment and retail purchases.” As one of Mr. Stroud’s lieutenants put it, the firm had “the optics of a Ponzi scheme.” —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story