--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/business/2020/10/20/EU-illo_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqVe9MDyUguKJ6jHXM6y_WU5Ati8lfakIPVnFiZKbz3Bo.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  A Brexit deal can still be achieved, even if it is not a particularly ambitious one 
description: > 
  The calculation would be that the freedom to diverge implicit in no-deal is worth a lot more to UK GDP than that 2.7pc.Significant short term challenges arise from failure to agree tariff and quota-free trade with the EU.Minette Batters, president of the National Farmers Union, says no-deal would be the biggest shock to UK farming since repeal of the Corn Laws nearly two hundred years ago.As things stand, roughly 30pc of food consumed in the UK comes from the EU.If the published tariffs were applied to these goods, it would in aggregate raise UK food and drink prices by between 2pc and 4pc from the beginning of next year, according to internal Government estimates. 
keywords: > 
  eu, uk, published, ambitious, trade, particularly, achieved, nodeal, tariffs, deal, food, tariff, schedule, brexit, farming 
date: 1603220121.7415893 
--- 
<div><p>But here&#8217;s the point. The same analysis found that the economic hit would be reduced by only 2.7 percentage points by a conventional FTA, or little more than 0.3pc per annum. The difference is not entirely to be sneezed at, but compared to the many other economic variables likely to assail the nation over the next ten years, it is basically neither here nor there, and possibly explains why the Prime Minister is seemingly so relaxed about the prospects of a no-deal outcome. The calculation would be that the freedom to diverge implicit in no-deal is worth a lot more to UK GDP than that 2.7pc.</p>
<p>Even so, it&#8217;s not going to be an easy ride. Significant short term challenges arise from failure to agree tariff and quota-free trade with the EU. Let&#8217;s skip the automotive sector for a change, whose complaint is in any case heard often enough, and focus instead on farming and financial services.</p>
<p>Minette Batters, president of the National Farmers Union, says no-deal would be the biggest shock to UK farming since repeal of the Corn Laws nearly two hundred years ago. Good, say some; by opening up the market to all comers, the effect will be to reduce food prices and therefore make everyone better off. Well, possibly, but not necessarily. The benefit also needs to be weighed against the cost to farming livelihoods.</p>
<p>Start with what the UK Government response to a no-deal scenario might be <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2019/10/08/no-deal-tariffs-shake-up-ministers-gear-do-die-brexit/">in terms of tariffs</a>, expected to be the subject of intense Cabinet discussion this week. The Department for International Trade has already published a schedule of tariffs it would expect to impose after leaving the EU single market, but these seem to be predicated on reaching a deal. Quite how this schedule would be applied in the event of no-deal has yet to be decided.</p>
<p>As things stand, roughly 30pc of food consumed in the UK comes from the EU. If the published tariffs were applied to these goods, it would in aggregate raise UK food and drink prices by between 2pc and 4pc from the beginning of next year, according to internal Government estimates. On the Richter scale of inflationary shocks, this is not huge, but at a time of <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/business/2020/10/13/unemployment-rising-phoney-war-almost/">impending mass unemployment</a>, it is not something you would want to impose on the population.</p>
<p>The Government has said that whatever the EU decides to do, it won&#8217;t levy tariffs on these imports initially and hopes that in time a degree of import substitution from UK farmers, denied tariff free access to European markets, will naturally kick into effect to compensate for any loss of EU export markets.</p>
</div>