--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8f59d5b0526700185cc7da?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  A founder wrote a brutally honest email to one of his VCs when he severed the relationship, and Silicon Valley can't stop talking about it 
description: > 
  A redacted email written by CircleUp founder Ryan Caldbeck to an investor board member is the talk of Silicon Valley.In the email, Caldbeck recounts the toxic relationship with the board member that led CircleUp to buy the investor out and severe ties.Caldbeck then laid out a litany of specific complaints against the investor/ board member.The redacted email to the board member sparked a lot of reaction from both VCs and founders.Of course, Startup Twitter and those on Hacker News wanted to know who redacted email was talking about. 
keywords: > 
  member, board, circleup, severed, company, redacted, email, founder, caldbeck, silicon, vcs, talking, honest, stop, founders, valley, relationship, investor, wrote 
date: 1603270741.7980704 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>A redacted email written by CircleUp founder Ryan Caldbeck to an investor board member is the talk of Silicon Valley.</li>
<li>In the email, Caldbeck recounts the toxic relationship with the board member that led CircleUp to buy the investor out and severe ties.</li>
<li>Caldbeck didn't name the VC so the Valley started sleuthing his identity.</li>
<li>But there was a bigger point to the discussions as well. Founders need to do more reference check their would-be board members and that's still not easy to do.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>When Ryan Caldbeck resigned this month from CEO of CircleUp, the fintech and venture firm he cofounded almost nine years ago, he did something unusual.</p><p>He wrote <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/circleup-ceo-ryan-caldbeck-candid-stepping-down-right-decision-2020-10">a chest-baring post on Medium</a> about how rough the job of founder was and he delved into an areas that is considered taboo: trouble with an investor board member.</p><p>The most unusual part is that he published the actual email he sent to that board member after he had bought back that investor's shares and severed the relationship, redacted to hide the board member's identity.</p><p>"We will never work together again but I still think feedback is a gift, so I'm offering to you," Caldbeck explained in the email. "I worry you won't receive it well."</p><p>Caldbeck then laid out a litany of specific complaints against the investor/ board member. They included misguided comments during board meetings, like the time the board member said the company had six months of financial runway left when it had two years; or when he turned his video off during a board meeting but not audio and then spent the board meeting talking with someone else, not knowing he was still on speakerphone.</p><p>He recounted stories of the board member making negative comments to company employees and inconsiderate demands in scheduling meetings with the founder.</p><p>But one of the strangest parts is when Caldbeck says the board member had Caldbeck and his team spending time raising funds for the board member's next venture fund, right down to writing emails.</p><p>This was happening even though CircleUp was expanding his fintech company into the VC world, and in the midst of raising money for its own fund.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<h2>Two sides to every story</h2><p>It is an albeit one-sided story of an investor-founder relationship turned sour that had ended over a year ago. But Caldbeck, having entered the venture world himself and now wearing two hats, one as founder, another as investor, felt compelled to share it, he said in the post. And Caldbeck has a history of sharing with founders some of his most difficult moments of life as a CEO. In 2019, for instance, he detailed the mental and physical health toll <a href="https://twitter.com/ryan_caldbeck/status/1118288136918847488">when his company floundered.</a></p><p>The redacted email to the board member sparked a lot of reaction from both VCs and founders.</p><p>Of course, Startup Twitter and those on <a href="https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=24793368">Hacker News</a> wanted to know who redacted email was talking about.&#160;</p><p>It didn't take much sleuthing to figure out that there was one prominent former board member who left CircleUp in the required time frame &#8212; Craig Shapiro, founder of Collaborative Fund. Collective is known for backing a long string of successful companies like Beyond Meat, Impossible Foods, Lyft, Kickstarter, Reddit.</p><p>While Business Insider was unable to confirm that Shapiro was the board member discussed in the email, Shapiro did acknowledge that he was aware of these alleged incidents.</p><p>When someone asked him if it was him, <a href="https://twitter.com/cshapiro/status/1317212694529802242">he tweeted,</a> "thanks for asking. Ryan releasing his own redacted email without context is disappointing and misleading. There are always two sides to every story."&#160;</p><p>He also <a href="https://twitter.com/cshapiro/status/1317212870182981632">tweeted</a>, "I wish Ryan well in whatever field he chooses next for himself. I'm proud of the work we do at Collaborative and fortunate to be surrounded by a great group of people who support one another &#8212; even when doing the right thing is the hard thing."</p><p>Shapiro did not immediately respond to our request for comment and Caldbeck declined comment.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<h2>Talk of the town</h2><p>VCs and founders all over Silicon Valley were talking about the email and what everyone should learn from it. The upshot, they agree, is to that founders should always investigate the people from whom they take investment money, especially when a board seat is involved. But, some said, that's easier said than done.</p><p>For instance, VC Sarah Guo at Greylock Partners <a href="https://twitter.com/saranormous/status/1316948656793260033">tweeted </a>the email with the remark, "Here's a strong case for not shotgun-marrying a board member with a 2-day process." She's referring to term-sheet offers from VCs that give founders short yes-or-no deadlines.</p><p>VC Jeremy Liew at Lightspeed chimed in <a href="https://twitter.com/jeremysliew/status/1316953047537455104">on Twitter</a> warning. "Founders, ref check your investors," meaning founders should talk to other portfolio founders in a reference check, similar to how investors should check on startups. Founders should particularly seek out those startups that were not big successes to discover how an investor behaves in times of trouble.</p><p>But Katrina Lake, the founder CEO of StitchFix, who is well-known for speaking out about the ills of Silicon Valley, points out that founders are at a disadvantage, even with reference checks, because there's a power imbalance between founders and VCs with the VCs holding more of the power.&#160;</p><p>"Lol- hard to do references when you've been silenced with an NDA," she <a href="https://twitter.com/kmlake/status/1317217767502741505">tweeted.&#160;</a></p><p>She was subtweeting about <a href="https://www.axios.com/how-lightspeed-responded-to-caldbecks-alleged-behavior-1513303291-797b3d44-6b7d-4cd1-89ef-7e35782a32e6.html">an Axios article from in 2017</a> that reported how she was asked to sign a non-disparagement agreement when she tried to report to Lightspeed, an early investor in her company, an incident of alleged sexual harassment with another investor. Axios published a copy of that non-disparagement agreement.</p><p>Are you a founder with a VC story to share? Contact Julie Bort via email at <a href="mailto:jbort@businessinsider.com">jbort@businessinsider.com</a> or on encrypted chat app Signal at (970) 430-6112 (no PR inquiries, please). Open DMs on Twitter <a href="https://twitter.com/Julie188">@Julie188.</a> &#160;</p> 
                  </div>