--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8ddcd8c21cfb0019468d7e?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  A fund manager who's doubling up the competition in 2020 tells us his strategy for investing in the 'K-shaped' economic recovery — and details the only 2 stocks he added as the market recovery took of 
description: > 
  Todd Ahlsten has returned more than 540% to investors since he began managing the Parnassus Core Equity Fund in 2001.With those successes behind him, Ahlsten explained how he's looking for winners in the sectors that are being decimated by the pandemic and recession.This year he's more than doubled the typical fund in his category with a 13.1% return as of Friday.Over his full tenure, the fund has returned 548% to investors, far above the 305% returned by the broader market as measured by the S&P 500 index.If the "work from home" and cloud computing names are the top half of a K-shaped recovery, he's now looking at the bottom half of the K for survivors. 
date: 1603210191.0688272 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Todd Ahlsten has returned more than 540% to investors since he began managing the Parnassus Core Equity Fund in 2001.&#160;</li>
<li>His older picks and successful investments during the coronavirus crash have helped him double the return of the typical fund in the category this year.</li>
<li>With those successes behind him, Ahlsten explained how he's looking for winners in the sectors that are being decimated by the pandemic and recession.&#160;</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-moneygame-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-moneygame-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>As the stock market's dramatic comeback from its March lows hit a major speed bump and volatility increased, a lot of investors scrambled to reposition for another twist.</p><p>Fund manager Todd Ahlsten wasn't one of them, as he mostly held on to his long-term investments and <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/coronavirus-investing-stock-picking-strategy-advice-todd-ahlsten-parnassus-investments-2020-5">the stocks he bought during the sell-off and the early stages of the recovery</a>.</p><p>"The turnover since that earlier part of the year has come down significantly," he told Business Insider in an exclusive interview.&#160; "We like where the portfolio is."</p><p>Ahlsten's track record suggests that when he chooses to hang on to a stock for the long-term, there's a good chance it will work out for him.&#160;</p><p>He's brought in sterling returns as the&#160;manager of the <a href="https://www.morningstar.com/funds/xnas/prblx/performance">Parnassus Core Equity Fund</a> for almost 20 years, and Kiplinger rates the fund as one of <a href="https://www.kiplinger.com/kiplinger-tools/investing/t041-s001-top-performing-mutual-funds/index.php">the best large-company stock funds of the last two decades</a>. This year he's more than doubled the typical fund in his category with a 13.1% return as of Friday.</p><p>Over his full tenure, the fund has returned 548% to investors, far above the 305% returned by the broader market as measured by the S&amp;P 500 index.</p><p>Secure in his investments in <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/stock-picks-contrarian-investment-recommendations-strategy-todd-ahlsten-parnassus-2020-5">some of the most important themes of 2020</a>, Ahlsten says he's scouring some of the hardest-hit stocks and looking for opportunities. If the "work from home" and cloud computing names are the top half of a <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/k-shaped-economic-recovery-chart-low-wage-workers-pandemic-economy-2020-10">K-shaped recovery</a>, he's now looking at the bottom half of the K for survivors.</p><p>"On the bottom part of the K-shaped recovery is where potential opportunity and peril lie," he said.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-moneygame-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-moneygame-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Ahlsten says he's using a two-part process to find the right opportunities. He wants to make sure every company he invests in financially sound and can endure a recovery that might be very slow, and he wants to know that the company's competitive position has gotten stronger.</p><p>"If you're going to identify opportunity in companies that are off, you've got to have number one, a capital structure to get to the other side," he said. "And point number two is, when demand comes back, you have to be a winner. You have to not just merely survive, but survive to win."</p><p>His emphasis on financial health is keeping him from investing in banks, energy companies, or firms with too much leverage.</p><p>One company that met his criteria was <a href="https://markets.businessinsider.com/stocks/bkng-stock"><strong>Booking Holding</strong></a>, which Ahlsten bought this spring. He says the company has enough money to survive for several years even if travel remains at a tiny fraction of its pre-pandemic levels, and its solid financial position lets it borrow money cheaply compared to its competitors.</p><p>So far it hasn't translated into sustained gains for the stock since he bought it, but he says it should help the company get through to the other side of the crisis.</p><p>"Our research showed Booking will be more important than ever for those small-end hotels and different lodging assets post-recovery," Ahlsten said. "They're going to need to reach their customers. They're going to need to reach them in new ways online. When things do come back, Booking has been investing in their business to extend their lead."</p><p>More recently he felt that payments company <a href="https://markets.businessinsider.com/stocks/fisv-stock"><strong>Fiserv</strong></a> was a worthy addition because it's trading at a discount to the potential he sees in its stock as its merchant services and issuer processing options catch on.</p><p>"There's a credible case... that based on some of the trends out there in payments that they can compound earnings at a mid teens rate over the next three years, and continue to grow for a longer time horizon," he said. "At 19 times earnings today, that's a pretty attractive setup for us."</p>
<p id="gpt-post-moneygame-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-moneygame-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>As of Friday, Fiserv is down approximately 18% from its high in early February in spite of a strong rally off its lows in March.</p><p><strong>Read more:</strong></p> 
                  </div>