--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f91a7c02121130018740298?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  A key member of Amazon's health team just left to join a venture firm that's launching a mental-health-focused startup 
description: > 
  Missy Krasner left Amazon for Redesign Health, a New-York based venture firm that makes health bets.A top Amazon healthcare executive just departed for an investment firm, in a setback for the tech giant's healthcare ambitions.Missy Krasner, an Amazon executive who focused on making the company's Alexa devices work with the healthcare system, has left for Redesign Health, a New York-based venture capital firm that's focused on healthcare."Amazon was a fantastic experience and is doing extremely innovative things in healthcare, including in voice with Alexa Health.Krasner was a founding member of Alexa Health & Wellness, a team within Amazon focused on making the devices work with health systems, pharmacies, and fitness programs. 
keywords: > 
  member, company, launching, redesign, join, health, venture, healthcare, amazon, startup, focused, tech, key, alexa, team, mentalhealthfocused, left, thats 
date: 1603386661.7700357 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Missy Krasner left Amazon for Redesign Health, a New-York based venture firm that makes health bets.</li>
<li>Krasner will soon be launching a company in the mental health space, Redesign said.</li>
<li>She was a founding member of Alexa's health and wellness team and led partnerships.</li>
<li>The move comes while Amazon and other big tech companies slowly gain ground in healthcare.</li>
<li><a href="http://newsletter.businessinsider.com/join/4np/newsletter.businessinsider.com/join/4np/insider-healthcare">For more stories like this, sign up here for Business Insider's daily healthcare newsletter.</a></li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-healthcare-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-healthcare-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>A top Amazon healthcare executive just departed for an investment firm, in a setback for the tech giant's healthcare ambitions.</p><p>Missy Krasner, an Amazon executive who focused on making the company's Alexa devices work with the healthcare system, has left for Redesign Health, a New York-based venture capital firm that's focused on healthcare.</p><p>"Amazon was a fantastic experience and is doing extremely innovative things in healthcare, including in voice with Alexa Health. It was a super hard decision to leave," Krasner told Business Insider.</p><p>"Given COVID and how much investing is going into digital health right now, I wanted to return to venture and help build companies," she said.</p><p>Redesign provides a unique platform for company creation and has several seasoned healthcare operators working on new and exciting companies, Krasner added. The company confirmed that she's joining the company and said her initial focus will be launching a startup in the mental health space.</p><p>Krasner also just joined the board of Springtide Child Development, a company building clinics for children with disabilities, Redesign said.</p><p>"Missy has a tremendous depth of healthcare industry knowledge and a rare blend of experience across tech, venture capital, and government," Redesign CEO Brett Shaheen told Business Insider. "She's already providing invaluable support and mentorship to our founders. We're thrilled to have her onboard."&#160;</p><p>Krasner was a founding member of Alexa Health &amp; Wellness, a team within Amazon focused on making the devices work with health systems, pharmacies, and fitness programs. It formed quietly in 2018 to target areas like diabetes management, <a href="https://www.cnbc.com/2018/05/10/amazon-is-building-a-health-and-wellness-team-within-alexa.html">CNBC's Eugene Kim and Christina Farr reported</a>.&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-healthcare-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-healthcare-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Krasner was the team's head of strategic partnerships. A big name in digital health, she led Google's first stab at healthcare and helped set up a key office with the US Department of Health &amp; Human Services that's now focused on making health systems communicate better.</p><p>Krasner also worked in venture capital and built out the healthcare business at Box before joining Amazon's special projects team in 2017.&#160;</p><p>Amazon did not immediately respond to requests for comment.&#160;</p><h2>Amazon has been pushing deeper into healthcare</h2><p>From Amazon's <a href="https://www.theinformation.com/articles/whats-ailing-an-amazon-health-venture">sleepy health venture with JPMorgan Chase and Berkshire Hathaway</a> to Google Health's <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/google-health-strategy-identity-alphabet-flux-2020-9">still-nascent strategy</a>, it's apparent that healthcare doesn't always come easy to Big Tech companies. But there's money and breakthroughs to be made in the $3.6 trillion industry, where <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/coronavirus-pushed-amazon-microsoft-and-google-deeper-into-healthcare-2020-7">hospitals need help managing data</a> and <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/meet-the-37-year-old-in-charge-of-google-healths-biggest-bet-2020-10">AI can better diagnose diseases</a>.</p><p>With its 112 million Prime members and vast physical and cloud infrastructure, Amazon has always been a formidable newcomer to the space. To date, it's tackled drug delivery through its acquisition of online pharmacy PillPack, <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/meet-erik-cardenas-amazon-cares-self-taught-tech-leader-2020-9">telehealth with Amazon Care</a>, deep learning with Comprehend Medical, and healthcare data management with AWS, the world's biggest cloud provider.</p><p><strong>Read more:</strong> <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/meet-erik-cardenas-amazon-cares-self-taught-tech-leader-2020-9">How a 38-year-old who taught himself health technology is shaping a key part of Amazon's plans to transform healthcare</a></p><p>The Alexa team is focused on adding capabilities they call "skills" to the assistant. Rachel Jiang, head of the health group, has been encouraging developers to pitch new ideas to the team, according to a recent presentation at HLTH Virtual, a healthcare conference.</p><p>Boston Children's Hospital, as one example, built a skill that helped parents of children with cardiac surgery monitor their progress, Jiang said. ChristianaCare also built an Alexa program with reminders for seniors about physical therapy and medication.&#160;</p>
                  </div>