--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8dbb13c21cfb0019468cb5?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  A startup from four telecom veterans is launching from stealth with $30 million in funding to make it easy for companies to use private 5G networks for more secure work or complex automation 
description: > 
  Mobile networks startup Celona, founded by four telecom veterans, just launched out of stealth with a $30 million Series B for products that make it easier for enterprises to use networks that are faster, more reliable, and more secure than 4G: Private 5G networks.Celona's cloud software makes 5G private networks 10 times cheaper than they would otherwise be, the firm claims.Big companies long anticipated the arrival of 5G private networks.At the end of 2019, Deloitte analysts predicted that more than a hundred companies would experiment with private 5G networks by the end of this year.This system allows private 5G networks to be affordable for enterprises, Shah said. 
date: 1603173661.0949614 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Mobile networks startup Celona, founded by four telecom veterans, just launched out of stealth with a $30 million Series B for products that make it easier for enterprises to use networks that are faster, more reliable, and more secure than 4G: Private 5G networks.&#160;</li>
<li>Celona's cloud software makes 5G private networks 10 times cheaper than they would otherwise be, the firm claims.&#160;&#160;</li>
<li>In its 18 months, Celona has raised a total of $40 million and is valued at $109 million, according to Pitchbook.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Big companies <a href="https://www.lightreading.com/mobile/4g-lte/cbrs-rising-and-the-wait-for-private-5g-networks/d/d-id/756242">long anticipated the arrival of 5G private networks</a>. While the promise of 5G networks is speedier connections, a private 5G network means more privacy and that a firm also wouldn't have to deal with anyone else using the network and slowing things down. This opens up a wealth of possibilities, like factories automating high-risk procedures without worrying about lag or hospitals sending sensitive medical information to labs securely.</p><p>At the end of 2019, Deloitte analysts predicted that more than a hundred companies <a href="https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/industry/technology/technology-media-and-telecom-predictions/2020/private-5g-networks.html">would experiment with private 5G networks</a> by the end of this year. Companies like <a href="https://www.zdnet.com/article/ford-plans-private-5g-network-to-speed-up-electric-vehicle-manufacturing/#:~:text=Car%20maker%20Ford%20plans%20to,Ford's%20Dunton%20campus%20in%20Essex.">Ford</a> and <a href="https://www.lightreading.com/private-networks/honeywell-to-test-private-5g-network/d/d-id/764353">Honeywell</a> are already testing them in their warehouses and factories to make processes more efficient.</p><p>Now, a fresh-from-stealth startup called Celona wants to take a bite out of the 5G enterprise market, which market research firm Polaris estimates<a href="https://www.polarismarketresearch.com/industry-analysis/5g-enterprise-market"> is worth $1.32 billion</a>. The startup has raised a $30 million Series B round of funding for a slew of products that aims to make private 5G networks more easily accessible to factories, security firms, warehouses, and other enterprises. While the firm declined to share its valuation, PitchBook lists it at $109 million.</p><p>All four of the firm's founders have backgrounds in connectivity and telecommunications. Mehmet Yavuz &#8212; the former CTO of networking firm Ruckus Networks and, before that, former VP of engineering at Qualcomm specializing in private networks &#8212; conceptualized the idea with Rajeev Shah &#8212; who worked at wireless networking firm Aruba Networks for 12 years &#8212; while the duo was in Barcelona (hence its name). They cofounded the company in 2019 along with Aruba engineers Vinay Anneboina and Ravi Mulam.</p><p>"It is our somewhat geeky, nerdy belief that connectivity tends to be this invisible driver of innovation," Celona CEO Shah said. "A lot of us spent a lot of time in WiFi and when we get among ourselves, we joke that the iPhone wouldn't have happened but for us."&#160;</p><p>5G, by design, is faster, more secure, and more reliable than WiFi, which buffers, lags, and is prone to hacks &#8211; which could lead to disaster in an automated factory. 5G private networks are giving enterprises added security and "getting rid of all of the &#8212; for lack of a better word &#8212; compromises we've gotten used to with wireless," Shah said.&#160;</p><p>Celona touts itself as the first 5G platform company geared specifically for enterprises, not the general market. Consumers don't require the level of customizability and security as enterprise companies do, Shah said: The stakes are much higher for enterprises if a network fails.</p><p>"Inside the enterprise, it is a lot more complex environment," Shah said. "Just visualize a manufacturing plant and the network for them. That is not the same as us just running Netflix and YouTube on our LTE network."</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>The Federal Communications Commission released a band of spectrum in January known as CBRS, which is considered the "innovation band" that carriers and companies can use for free to experiment with 5G networks. It's a far cry from how spectrum is traditionally released: Usually companies like Verizon or AT&amp;T have to bid billions of dollars to control and license it. This system allows private 5G networks to be affordable for enterprises, Shah said.&#160;</p><p>Celona works with a spectrum administrator to offer access to its customers, who then use the spectrum through Celona's combination of cloud software and hardware access points, which can be placed wherever the company wants them. Those access points connect to companies' existing cloud infrastructure like Azure and AWS through its Celona Edge software, where companies can manage everything.&#160;</p><p>Celona's software-heavy product minimizes hardware use, making the total cost of private networks 10 times cheaper than they would otherwise be, according to Shah.</p><p>Celona isn't the only one in the telecommunications industry putting an emphasis on software: Nokia and Intel, two large hardware suppliers, are incorporating more software in their lines of 5G products and using hardware only where necessary.&#160;</p><p>"You went with a certain kind of hardware and you just had to stick with it," Futurum Research analyst Dan Newman said, referring to how networks used to be set up. Now, "when you want to scale deployments, we realized the fastest way to scale with IT is essentially through cloud deployments, flexible networks."<strong>&#160;</strong></p><p>The 18-month-old company previously raised $10 million last year and Qualcomm Ventures and NTT Venture Capital led the Series B round.&#160;</p><p>The fresh funding will go to, among other things, growing its team across the country, which has swelled from four to 40 since its inception.</p>
                  </div>