--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5c1c87282ab31e41393196c8?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  A top IBM exec explains how the $34 billion merger with Red Hat is helping it speed up and make faster decisions right at a crucial juncture in its big cloud play 
description: > 
  But the marriage appears to be working, transforming Big Blue into a faster-moving behemoth, two top IBM and Red Hat execs said.He also said: "The influence that Red Hat has had on our meetings has been pretty refreshing."Lord's insights were echoed by Craig Muzilla, a 14-year Red Hat veteran who has become his new partner.Red Hat has continued to grow post-merger, even as its new parent company struggled with weak overall sales, especially during the pandemic.Got a tip about IBM, Red Hat, or another tech company? 
keywords: > 
  play, merger, muzilla, juncture, helping, business, ibm, hat, right, cloud, faster, software, revenue, big, red, speed, tech 
date: 1603346558.3611364 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li><strong>There were concerns that IBM's $34 billion merger with Red Hat would lead to a culture clash between the 109-year-old tech giant and the open source software company.</strong></li>
<li><strong>But the marriage appears to be working, transforming Big Blue into a faster-moving behemoth, two top IBM and Red Hat execs said.</strong></li>
<li><strong>"We're getting to faster decisions than I've ever experienced," IBM Senior Vice President Bob Lord told Business Insider. "The speed of decision making is just so encouraging."</strong></li>
<li><strong>That speed is a vital weapon in IBM's arsenal, right at a critical moment: Big Blue reported earnings this week, showing another dip in revenue. The one bright spot in the report: Red Hat, which continues to grow post-merger, and helped IBM lock in a deal with Delta Airlines.</strong></li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>The big fear when <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/ibm-red-hat-34-billion-purchase-biggest-deal-ever-2019-7">IBM gobbled up Red Hat </a>was that the 109-year tech behemoth would end up changing &#8212; and perhaps even destroying &#8212; the 27-year-old company.</p><p>But about a year into the tie-up, the opposite appears to be happening, according to two execs &#8212; one from IBM and the other from Red Hat. They paint a more upbeat picture of a corporate giant often portrayed as a tech dinosaur that's becoming more like the fast-moving pioneer of open source software that it just acquired.</p><p>"We're getting to faster decisions than I've ever experienced," IBM Senior Vice President Bob Lord told Business Insider.&#160; "The speed of decision-making is just so encouraging."&#160; He also said: "The influence that Red Hat has had on our meetings has been pretty refreshing."</p><p>Lord's insights were echoed by Craig Muzilla, a 14-year Red Hat veteran who has become his new partner. Muzilla explained how, about a year into the merger, the smaller software company has managed to keep its more free-flowing culture intact.</p><p>"The work and the decisions are not bubbled up where it has to be decided at the top layer with all this hierarchy," Muzilla told Business Insider. "In an open source community. there are lots of contributors, a lot of ways you hash it out. You don't wait for the hierarchy to make a decision. You make the decisions on a working level."</p><p>Lord cited a recent disagreement over marketing related to Red Hat products. Referring to Muzilla and Red Hat CEO Paul Cormier, he said: "Craig, Paul and I got on the phone and literally within 15, 20 minutes, we had a working team going together, and in 24 hours they came back with a resolution."</p><p>"In the past at IBM, we would have waited for an executive leadership meeting to actually even sort of get on the phone to address it," Lord said.</p><h2>Speed is critical for IBM</h2><p>That speed is critial for IBM, which on Monday reported another drop in revenue as it prepared to spin out a big segment of its IT services business. That plan and buying Red Hat were part of IBM's bid to become dominant in the hybrid cloud market which <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/ibm-hybirid-cloud-red-hat-arvind-krishna-2019-7">new CEO Arvind Krishna</a> has predicted will be a $1 trillion enterprise market.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>IBM became a tech powerhouse as the provider of hardware, software and services to huge corporations that rely on in-house computing networks. But it has fallen behind rivals like Microsoft, Amazon and Google in the cloud, which let businesses set up networks on web-based platforms, making it possible to scale down or even abandon private data centers.&#160;</p><p>IBM is making a big bet on the rise of hybrid cloud in which businesses use web based platforms while keeping huge chunks of their data and applications on in-house data centers. Red Hat, whose open source software creates applications that can run on different computing environments, is key to Big Blue's hybrid cloud offensive.</p><p>But the $34 billion merger triggered some big worries.<a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/ibm-new-president-explains-how-red-hat-merger-2020-5"> Jim Whitehurst,</a>&#160;Red Hat's former CEO who is now IBM's president, said his initial reaction was that merging would be a bad idea.&#160;</p><p>Another <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/red-hat-new-ceo-ibm-merger-worries-powerful-combination-2020-4">Red Hat veteran Paul Cormier</a>, who is now the software company's CEO, also told Business Insider in April that he was afraid that IBM "would just suck us in," citing the tech giant's history of gobbling up companies that became just another part of the IBM portfolio.</p><h2>Red Hat's independence was a key business decision</h2><p>There were also concerns about the backlash from Red Hat's major customers, some of whom were IBM's competitors. In fact, some of them expressed apprehension about the merger's impact.&#160;</p><p>"The larger cloud providers were sort of knocking on our door," Muzilla said. "They weren't in a panic but they were curious and concerned a little bit."</p><p>But those concerns have generally been put to rest, Muzilla said, noting that IBM "structured us so that we're independent.</p><p>"We still run our own affairs," he said. "The management is still all Red Hat." The company assured clients that "we're going to maintain our partnerships," he added. "We will remain neutral. We will remain Switzerland."</p>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<h2>The merger is working so far, but challenges loom&#160;</h2><p>So far, the arrangement seems to be working.</p><p>Red Hat has continued to grow post-merger, even as its new parent company struggled with weak overall sales, especially during the pandemic. This was underscored Monday when IBM reported a 3% year-over-year dip in overall revenue, but a 17% jump for Red Hat.</p><p>IBM reported a third-quarter profit of $1.7 billion, or $1.89 a share, compared to $1.67 billion, or $1.87 a share, for the year-ago quarter. Revenue fell about 3% to $17.6 billion. Adjusted profit was $2.58 a share. Analysts were expecting a profit of $2.58 a share, on revenue of&#160; $17.5 billion.</p><p>IBM shares fell more than 5% in on Tuesday as Wall Street analysts noted that the economic uncertainty during the pandemic continues to weigh on the tech giant.&#160; The one bright spot was Red Hat.</p><p>Analysts noted that it recorded slower revenue growth quarter-on-quarter, but Morgan Stanley analyst Katy Huberty told clients that Red Hat "is expected to continue growing in the mid to high teens and possibly accelerate" in the coming quarters. During the call with analysts, Krishna reported a major customer win featuring Delta Airlines which he said had opted to modernize its network using Red Hat technology.</p><p>Lord said the IBM-Red Hat team won that deal because their hybrid cloud model they offered gave Delta more flexibility. He said that approach is critical at a time of rapid changes in enterprise tech when businesses, especially big corporations, don't want to get trapped with one technology vendor.</p><p>"Your public cloud provider could be good for one thing at this moment, but two years from now that may be very different," Lord said. "That was something that the CEO and CIO wanted because they didn't want to be locked in." Red Hat's technology, he said, "actually gave IBM the advantage to win."</p><p>Got a tip about IBM, Red Hat, or another tech company? Contact this reporter via email at bpimentel@businessinsider.com, message him on Twitter <a href="https://twitter.com/benpimentel">@benpimentel</a> or send him a secure message through Signal at (510) 731-8429. You can also <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-tip-business-insider-securely-guide-signal-securedrop-2017-6">contact Business Insider securely via SecureDrop</a>.</p>
                  </div>