--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/luxury/2020/10/07/shutterstock_editorial_1301232c_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqPwpiQFRXb14A084w1o8A13Sqenyz-1xz5ihJMaqpYO8.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  A wife, a lover and a hunting scandal. How Spain's King Juan Carlos fell from his throne 
description: > 
  That evening King Felipe announced he would reject any eventual inheritance from his father and cut Juan Carlos off from his €200,000 annual stipend.In a paragraph at the end of that same communiqué, Juan Carlos informed his once-adoring subjects that he had appointed a lawyer to defend him in the battles to come.Never a city slicker like Cristina, Elena’s closest connection in the family was always her father, Juan Carlos, with whom she shares a passion for the great outdoors and a good bullfight.‘Juan Carlos was a magnificent king who piloted in Spain’s democracy from the Franco dictatorship.His love life was not the problem; he is a Bourbon and the Bourbons have always been womanisers.’According to Carlos Espinosa de los Monteros, a longtime friend of the former king, Juan Carlos understood the pressure on his son to distance himself from scandal. 
date: 1602330291.5260708 
--- 
That the murkier side of Juan Carlos’s reign should come to light was bad enough, but when King Felipe was linked to possible financial impropriety, the former monarch had to be sacrificed in the interests of the Crown. On 15 March, the day Spain entered a nationwide lockdown as Covid-19 began to spread uncontrollably, The Sunday Telegraph revealed that before Felipe had become king, he had been named as a hereditary beneficiary of two offshore funds used by Juan Carlos, including the Panama-based Lucum Foundation.

That evening King Felipe announced he would reject any eventual inheritance from his father and cut Juan Carlos off from his €200,000 annual stipend. In a paragraph at the end of that same communiqué, Juan Carlos informed his once-adoring subjects that he had appointed a lawyer to defend him in the battles to come. In June, Spain’s Supreme Court began to consider whether he could be accused of any wrongdoing. Though now abroad, his lawyer has declared him ‘at the disposal’ of the public prosecutor.

King Felipe had put clear water between himself and his father – but at a huge personal cost to his family and with no guarantee that he can quell the anger over Juan Carlos’s indiscretions. Felipe’s televised speech to the nation during the Covid crisis was marked by a noisy pot-banging protest on balconies around Spain, amid a social-media campaign demanding Juan Carlos donate his Saudi money to the Spanish health service.

While Juan Carlos’s nickname is el campechano, the hearty one, Felipe is el preparado, the prepared one, on account of his possessing a law degree and an MA in international relations from Georgetown University, Washington. In easier times, long before his accession, Felipe had also shown a certain liking for female company, with a string of girlfriends including a rumoured fling with Gwyneth Paltrow. In May 2004, he married Letizia Ortiz Rocasolano, a former newsreader who, while a commoner, has failed to generate much sympathy among Spaniards. Despite her professional background as a journalist, Letizia largely eschews any direct communication with the nation. While the couple can still on occasion be glimpsed sneaking around Madrid incognito to see a film or visit friends, they are deeply private and precious little of their lives is shared with the public.

What no one can doubt, however, is Felipe’s sense of duty towards his country. Even before the decision to distance himself from his father, he had shown a ruthless streak regarding family scandals. When his sister Princess Cristina and her husband, Iñaki Urdangarin, were ordered to stand trial for fraud, Felipe withdrew her title of Duchess of Palma over her connection to the affair. Cristina, the first royal to go on trial in modern Spain, was later acquitted, yet inevitably tension contaminated family relations. Once seen as the most grounded of her siblings with her relatively normal life working for a bank in Barcelona, she now lives in Geneva, reportedly battling depression as her husband serves his sentence of almost six years.

Princess Elena – the eldest of the siblings but not to be queen as Spain maintains male primogeniture – has kept a low profile and buried herself in her preferred charities since divorcing her aristocratic husband, Jaime de Marichalar, in 2009. Never a city slicker like Cristina, Elena’s closest connection in the family was always her father, Juan Carlos, with whom she shares a passion for the great outdoors and a good bullfight.

Even if Felipe and his sisters could roll back the years and keep their childhood bonds, insiders note that Letizia has ruffled the feathers of the entire family, not least because of her obsession with protecting her two daughters from publicity. During an attempt to show a united family front in Palma de Mallorca two years ago, Letizia broke with any sense of protocol by publicly grappling with her mother-in-law in an apparent bid to prevent a photo opportunity with Princesses Leonor, 14, and Sofía, 13. ‘The family no longer exists as such. It has been dissolved,’ says Jaime Peñafiel, Spain’s best-known royal observer. ‘It’s not right that a son should ignore the presumption of innocence of his own father and allow open season so that anyone can get stuck into the personal life of Juan Carlos. This is something that will haunt Felipe for the rest of his life, just as Juan Carlos was haunted by betraying his own father when he agreed to be Franco’s heir.

‘Juan Carlos was a magnificent king who piloted in Spain’s democracy from the Franco dictatorship. He was very much loved by Spaniards, but money was his undoing. We don’t know why. His love life was not the problem; he is a Bourbon and the Bourbons have always been womanisers.’

According to Carlos Espinosa de los Monteros, a longtime friend of the former king, Juan Carlos understood the pressure on his son to distance himself from scandal. ‘In that family’s relations, there is the normal affectionate side, and then there is this extra component in which the key is a responsibility to defend and conserve the continuation of the Crown.’