--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Acapela_founders_medium.jpg?w=619 
title: > 
  Acapela, from the founder of Dubsmash, hopes ‘asynchronous meetings’ can end Zoom fatigue – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  Acapela, a new startup co-founded by Dubsmash founder Roland Grenke, is breaking cover today in a bid to re-imagine online meetings for remote teams.In some ways the product can be thought of as the antithesis to Zoom and Slack’s real-time and attention-hogging downsides.The round is led by Visionaries Club with participation from various angel investors, including Christian Reber (founder of Pitch and Wunderlist) and Taavet Hinrikus (founder of TransferWise).“Our mission is to make remote teams work together more effectively by having fewer but better meetings,” Grenke tells me.“Initially, we are targeting high-growth tech companies which have a high willingness to try out new tools while having an increasing need for better processes as their teams grow,” adds the Acapela founder. 
keywords: > 
  end, founder, tools, grenke, zoom, meeting, video, meetings, techcrunch, dubsmash, team, remote, asynchronous, hopes, acapela, work, fatigue 
date: 1603348002.5356228 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary"><a href="http://acape.la">Acapela</a>, a new startup co-founded by Dubsmash founder Roland Grenke, is breaking cover today in a bid to re-imagine online meetings for remote teams.</p>
<p>Hoping to put an end to video meeting fatigue, the product is described as an &#8220;asynchronous meeting platform,&#8221; which Grenke and <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/acapela" target="_blank">Acapela&#8217;s </a> other co-founder, ex-Googler Heiki Riesenkampf (who has a deep learning computer science background), believe could be the key to unlock better and more efficient collaboration. In some ways the product can be thought of as the antithesis to Zoom and Slack&#8217;s real-time and attention-hogging downsides.</p>
<p>To launch, the Berlin-based and &#8220;remote friendly&#8221; company has raised &#8364;2.5 million in funding. The round is led by <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/visionaries-club" target="_blank">Visionaries Club </a> with participation from various angel investors, including Christian Reber (founder of Pitch and Wunderlist) and Taavet Hinrikus (founder of TransferWise). I also understand Entrepreneur First is a backer and has assigned <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/05/19/benedict-evans-joins-ef/">EF venture partner Benedict Evans</a> to work on the problem. If you&#8217;ve seen the ex-Andreessen Horowitz analyst writing about a <a href="https://www.ben-evans.com/benedictevans/2020/6/22/zoom-and-the-next-video">post-Zoom world</a> lately, now you know why.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>Specifically, Acapela says it will use the injection of cash to expand the core team, focusing on product, design and engineering as it continues to build out its offering.</p>
<p>&#8220;Our mission is to make remote teams work together more effectively by having fewer but better meetings,&#8221; Grenke tells me. &#8220;With Acapela, we aim to define a new category of team collaboration that provides more structure and personality than written messages (Slack or email) and more flexibility than video conferencing (Zoom or Google Meet)&#8221;.</p>
<p>Grenke believes some form of asynchronous meetings is the answer, where participants don&#8217;t have to interact in real-time but the meeting still has an agenda, goals, a deadline and &#8212; if successfully run &#8212; actionable outcomes.</p>
<p>&#8220;Instead of sitting through hours of video calls on a daily basis, users can connect their calendars and select meetings they would like to discuss asynchronously,&#8221; he says. &#8220;So, as an alternative to everyone being in the same call at the same time, team members contribute to conversations more flexibly over time. Like communication apps in the consumer space, Acapela allows rich media formats to be used to express your opinion with voice or video messages while integrating deeply with existing productivity tools (like GSuite, Atlassian, Asana, Trello, Notion, etc.)&#8221;.</p>
<p>In addition, Acapela will utilise what Grenke says is the latest machine learning techniques to help automate repetitive meeting tasks as well as to summarise the contents of a meeting and any decisions taken. If made to work, that in itself could be significant.</p>
<p>&#8220;Initially, we are targeting high-growth tech companies which have a high willingness to try out new tools while having an increasing need for better processes as their teams grow,&#8221; adds the Acapela founder. &#8220;In addition to that, they tend to have a technical global workforce across multiple time zones which makes synchronous communication much more costly. In the long run we see a great potential tapping into the space of SMEs and larger enterprises, since COVID has been a significant driver of the decentralization of work also in the more traditional industrial sectors. Those companies make up more than 90% of our European market and many of them have not switched to new communication tools yet&#8221;.</p>
</div>