--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Founders-Robert-Paul-Anne-Willem-1.jpeg?w=600 
title: > 
  Adyen alumni raise €2.6M seed to launch Silverflow, a ‘cloud-native’ card payments processor – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  The aim is to offer a modern replacement for the 20 to 40-year-old payments card processing tech that is mostly in use today.“Today’s card payment infrastructure based on 30 to 40-year-old technology is still in use across the global payment landscape.So, why hasn’t a cloud-native card processing platform like Silverflow been done before and why now?“Second, to build this successfully, you need to have prior knowledge of the card payments industry to navigate all the legal, regulatory and technical requirements.“Thirdly, any large corporate currently active in card payment processing will be aware of the problem and have the relevant industry knowledge. 
keywords: > 
  card, adyen, silverflow, launch, seed, alumni, provides, processor, processing, platform, payment, cloudnative, data, raise, payments, kraal, techcrunch 
date: 1603359057.8606844 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary"><a href="https://www.silverflow.co/">Silverflow</a>, a Dutch startup founded by <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2018/06/13/dutch-payments-company-adyen-opens-at-e400-share-a-pop-of-67-now-valued-at-14-5b/">Adyen</a> alumni, is breaking cover and announcing seed funding.</p>
<p>The pre-launch company has spent the last two years building what it describes as a &#8220;cloud-native&#8221; online card processor that directly connects to card networks. The aim is to offer a modern replacement for the 20 to 40-year-old payments card processing tech that is mostly in use today.</p>
<p>Backing Silverflow&#8217;s &#8364;2.6 million seed round is U.K.-based VC Crane Venture Partners, with participation from Inkef Capital and unnamed angel investors and industry leaders from Pay.On, First Data, Booking.com and Adyen. It brings the fintech startup&#8217;s total funding to date to ~&#8364;3 million.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>Bootstrapped while in development and launching in 2021, Silverflow&#8217;s founders are CEO Anne-Willem de Vries (who was focused on card acquiring and processing at Adyen), CBDO Robert Kraal (former Adyen COO and EVP global card acquiring &amp; processing of Adyen) and CTO Paul Buying (founder of acquired translation startup Livewords).</p>
<p>&#8220;The payments tech stack needs an upgrade,&#8221; Kraal tells me. &#8220;Today&#8217;s card payment infrastructure based on 30 to 40-year-old technology is still in use across the global payment landscape. This legacy infrastructure is costing everyone time and money: consumers, merchants, payment-service-providers and banks. The legacy platforms require a lengthy on-boarding process and are expensive to maintain, [and] they also aren&#8217;t fit for purpose today because they don&#8217;t support data use&#8221;.</p>
<p>In addition, Kraal says that adding new functionality is a lengthy and expensive process, requiring the effort of specialised engineers which ultimately slows down innovation &#8220;for the whole card payments system&#8221;.</p>
<p>&#8220;Finally, every acquirer provides its customer with a different processing platform, which for a typical payment service provider (PSP) means they have to deal with multiple legacy platforms &#8212; and all the costs and specialised support each entails,&#8221; adds de Vries.</p>
<p>To solve this, Silverflow claims it has built the first payments processor with a &#8220;cloud-native platform&#8221; built for today&#8217;s technology stack. This includes offering simple APIs and &#8220;streamlined data flows&#8221; directly integrated into the card networks.</p>
<p>Continues de Vries: &#8220;Instead of managing a complex network of acquirers across markets with dozens of bank and card network connections to maintain, Silverflow provides card-acquiring processing as a service that connects to card networks directly through a simple API&#8221;.</p>
<p>Target customers are PSPs, acquirers and &#8220;global top-market merchants&#8221; that are seeing &#8364;500 million to 10 billion in annual transactions.</p>
<p>&#8220;As a managed service, Silverflow provides the maintenance for connections and new product innovation that users have typically had to support in-house or work on long-term product road maps with suppliers,&#8221; explains Kraal. &#8220;Based in the cloud, Silverflow is infinitely scalable for peak flows and also provides robust data insights that users haven&#8217;t previously been able to access&#8221;.</p>
<p>With regards to competitors, Kraal says there are no other companies at the moment doing something similar, &#8220;as far as we are aware&#8221;. Currently, acquirers use traditional third-party processors, such as SIA, Omnipay, Cybersource or MIGS. Some companies, like Adyen, have built their own in-house processing platform.</p>
<p>So, why hasn&#8217;t a cloud-native card processing platform like Silverflow been done before and why now? A lack of awareness of the problem might be one reason, says de Vries.</p>
<p>&#8220;Unless you have built several integrations to acquirers during your career, you are not aware that the 30 to 40-years-old infrastructure is still in use. This is not typically a problem some bright college graduates would tackle,&#8221; he posits.</p>
<p>&#8220;Second, to build this successfully, you need to have prior knowledge of the card payments industry to navigate all the legal, regulatory and technical requirements.</p>
<p>&#8220;Thirdly, any large corporate currently active in card payment processing will be aware of the problem and have the relevant industry knowledge. However, building a new processing platform would require them to allocate their most talented staff to this project for two-three years, taking away resources from their existing projects. In addition, they would also need to manage a complex migration project to move their existing customers from their current system to the new one and risk losing some of the customers along the way&#8221;.</p>
			</div>