--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/12/us/politics/12dc-barrett-live-vid/12dc-barrett-live-vid-videoSixteenByNineJumbo1600.jpg 
title: > 
  Amy Coney Barrett Live Updates: Democrats Focus on Health Care, Republicans Evoke Her Religion 
description: > 
  ET Amy Coney Barrett Live Updates: Democrats Focus on Health Care, Republicans Evoke Her Religion Video The Senate on Monday begins the confirmation hearing for Judge Amy Coney Barrett, President Trump’s choice to fill the Supreme Court seat of the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg.Credit Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times RIGHT NOW Blumenthal calls on Judge Barrett to recuse herself from any election-related cases.Judge Barrett will be the last to speak, and is expected to give a short, mostly biographical statement before taking questions later in the week.“Courts are not designed to solve every problem or right every wrong in our public life,” Judge Barrett plans to say.But Judge Barrett has indicated that some precedents are more worthy of respect than others. 
date: 1602522773.8657506 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 12, 2020, 12:44 p.m. ET Oct. 12, 2020, 12:44 p.m. ET Amy Coney Barrett Live Updates: Democrats Focus on Health Care, Republicans Evoke Her Religion Video The Senate on Monday begins the confirmation hearing for Judge Amy Coney Barrett, President Trump’s choice to fill the Supreme Court seat of the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Credit Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times RIGHT NOW Blumenthal calls on Judge Barrett to recuse herself from any election-related cases.

‘This is probably not about persuading each other.’ Senators began four days of contentious hearings. Judge Amy Coney Barrett appearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee in the Capitol on Monday. Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times A deeply divided Senate Judiciary Committee kicked off four days of contentious confirmation hearings on Monday for Judge Amy Coney Barrett, President Trump’s nominee for the Supreme Court, drawing battle lines that could reverberate through the election. Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina and the committee’s chairman, left little doubt about where the proceedings were heading, gaveling open “the hearing to confirm Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court,” rather than saying it was a hearing to consider her nomination. “This is probably not about persuading each other unless something really dramatic happens,” Mr. Graham added a short time later. “All the Republicans will vote yes, all the Democrats will vote no.” Democrats arrived ready to go on the offensive, portraying Judge Barrett’s nomination as an election-season power grab by Mr. Trump and Republicans and rank hypocrisy after the yearlong blockade in 2016 against President Barack Obama’s high court nominee, Merrick B. Garland. They characterized Judge Barrett as a conservative ideologue who would overturn the Affordable Care Act, invalidate abortion rights and side with the president in any legal disputes arising from the Nov. 3 election. “We are now just 22 days from the election, Mr. Chairman. Voting is underway in 40 states,” said Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat on the panel. “Senate Republicans are pressing forward, full speed ahead, to consolidate the court that will carry their policies forward with, I hope, some review for the will of the American people.” Republicans tried to deflect those charges and redirect attention toward Judge Barrett’s sterling résumé and compelling personal story. But their goal above all else was speed — pushing through the confirmation before Election Day — and it appeared that they had the votes to install her and cement a 6-to-3 conservative majority on the court before the end of October. Senator Mike Lee, Republican of Utah, who announced he tested positive for coronavirus on Oct. 3, was on hand, masked, to lend his support. Mr. Graham defended the process, saying there was nothing “unconstitutional” about confirming a new justice so close to the election. As for Judge Barrett, he deemed her a worthy successor to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, whose death at 87 last month created a vacancy on the court. “In my view, the person appearing for this committee is in the category of excellent, something the country should be proud of,” Mr. Graham said. Monday’s hearing was expected to take most of the day as each member of the Judiciary Committee gets 10 minutes to deliver an opening statement. Judge Barrett will be the last to speak, and is expected to give a short, mostly biographical statement before taking questions later in the week. —

Republicans attacked Democrats for “anti-Catholic” stands they actually avoided. “In fact, it is an attempt to bring back an old standard that the Constitution explicitly forbids,” said Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri. “I’m talking about a religious test for office.” Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times Republicans, who spent much of the hearing’s opening day on the defensive, tried to turn the tables by accusing Democrats of targeting Judge Barrett over of her Catholic faith, even though no Democrat mentioned or even alluded to it. As Democrats focused on Judge Barrett’s legal rulings and writings on health care and other issues, Republicans doggedly stuck with a game plan that framed Democrats as anti-Catholic and anti-religion, hoping to motivate their political base. “This committee is not in the business of deciding which religious beliefs are good, which are bad, and which religious beliefs are weird,” said Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska, who called himself “someone who is self-consciously a Christian.” Some beliefs he holds may be considered “crazy,” he said, such as the Virgin birth and resurrection of Jesus. Mr. Sasse argued that Democrats were trying to put in place an unconstitutional religious test for the court. Since no Democrat has raised Judge Barrett’s religious beliefs since her nomination for the Supreme Court, he and other Senate Republicans repeatedly reached back to the 2017 hearing on her nomination for an appeals court seat, when some Democrats questioned whether she could set aside personal beliefs rooted in her religion to rule impartially. “This committee is not in the business of deciding whether ‘the dogma lives too loudly’ within someone,” said Mr. Sasse, referencing a comment by Ms. Feinstein during that earlier proceeding. Senator Josh Hawley, Republican of Missouri, said Ms. Feinstein’s 2017 comment revived a history of un-American religious discrimination, adopting “the very terminology of anti-Catholic bigotry.” He also faulted Senator Chris Coons, Democrat of Delaware, for saying that he feared Judge Barrett might support overturning the Supreme Court’s decision in Griswold v. Connecticut, a 1965 ruling striking down a Connecticut law against contraception. “I can only assume,” Mr. Hawley said, that the statement “is another swipe at her Catholic beliefs.” “This is the sort of attack that must stop,” he added. Judge Barrett has located Catholicism as a central aspect of her life. She teaches at a Catholic university, Notre Dame, and is part of an insular religious community, the People of Praise, that has fewer than 2000 members and is inspired by the traditions of charismatic Christianity, including speaking in tongues. Democrats inside the hearing room made no direct reply to the criticism, but on the campaign trail, their nominee for president, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., said that Judge Barrett’s religion should not be a factor in her confirmation. “No, her faith should not be considered,” Mr. Biden, himself a churchgoing Catholic, told reporters. “No one’s faith should be questioned.” —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For Judiciary Committee Democrats, the Affordable Care Act is center stage. Pictures of people who would be negatively affected if the Affordable Care Act were repealed, displayed in the hearing room on Monday. Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times Senate Democrats have settled on their line of attack against Judge Amy Coney Barrett: Her confirmation to the Supreme Court could mean the death of the Affordable Care Act and millions of Americans stripped of their health insurance. The court is set to hear oral arguments on Nov. 10 — one week after the election — on a case backed by the Trump administration that contends that because Congress reduced the health law’s penalty for not carrying health insurance to zero, the entire law is unconstitutional. It is a narrow argument with broad ramifications for tens of millions of Americans who are insured under President Barack Obama’s signature domestic achievement or are protected by its coverage mandates. In their opening remarks on Monday, the first day at the Senate Judiciary Committee’s confirmation hearing, one Democrat after another invoked the health care law — and, more broadly, the Trump administration’s response to the coronavirus pandemic. Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the committee’s ranking Democrat, told of a woman whose eyesight was failing when Mr. Obama signed the law in 2010: “Within weeks she was able to have cataract surgery. This saved her life. She described her reaction when she was able to get coverage through the California health exchange following passage of the A.C.A. And let me quote, ‘It was like heaven. I cried.’” Senator Sheldon Whitehouse, Democrat of Rhode Island, said his constituents are “asking me to say no to this nominee mostly because they see her as a judicial torpedo aimed at their essential protections.” Senator Amy Klobuchar was blunt, describing how both her husband and her 92-year-old father contracted Covid-19. “The president could have saved so many lives,” she said, adding, “One judge can decide if millions of Americans lose the right to keep their children on their insurance until they are 26 years old. One judge can decide that a senior’s prescription drugs, which are already too high, could soar even higher.” Republicans said Democrats’ remarks were beside the point and had nothing to do with confirming Judge Barrett or her judicial philosophy. “I do not know what any of that has to do with why we are here today,” said Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska. “A huge part of what we are doing here in this hearing would be really confusing to eighth graders.” —

Blumenthal calls on Judge Barrett to recuse herself from any election-related cases. Pivoting away at times from their focus on health care, Democrats warned that President Trump had another objective in mind in rushing Judge Amy Coney Barrett onto the court: the potential that a legal challenge to the results of the Nov. 3 election could reach the Supreme Court and she might be called upon to rule on it. It was not a stretch. Mr. Trump has said in recent weeks that he wanted a nominee confirmed by Election Day in case the court needed to weigh in on the outcome of the race. “I think this will end up in the Supreme Court,” he said, adding that the justices would need to “look at the ballots” to ensure the result was not tainted by “this scam that the Democrats are pulling.” His comments alluded to a baseless theory that mail-in voting will lead to widespread fraud, and his frequently stated fear that it will cost him the election. Democrats said the comments, made as Mr. Trump trails in the polls and has refused to commit to a peaceful transfer of power should he lose the election, cast a shadow over the nomination that Judge Barrett must clear away by recusing herself from any case arising from the election. “Your participation, let me be blunt, in any case involving Donald Trump’s election, would immediately do explosive and enduring harm to the court’s legitimacy and to your own credibility,” said Senator Richard Blumenthal, Democrat of Connecticut. “You must recuse yourself. The American people are angry and for good reason. It is a break the glass moment.” Mr. Trump punched back on Twitter, reviving a decade-old controversy in which Mr. Blumenthal had misrepresented and sometimes outright lied about his Vietnam-era military service. “So Crazy to watch Senator Blumenthal of Connecticut lecture all on morals & ethics when for 25 years he said he was a Great War Hero in Vietnam, and he was never even there,” Mr. Trump said. “He lied & cheated right up until the day he got caught.” —

The coronavirus pandemic is shaping the proceeding. Protesters dressed in personal protective equipment outside the Supreme Court on Monday. Credit... Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times Judge Barrett’s confirmation hearing looks unlike any other in modern history, thanks to the coronavirus pandemic. Republicans have insisted on going ahead notwithstanding a virus outbreak in Washington that appears to be linked to the crowded White House ceremony two weeks ago where Mr. Trump introduced Judge Barrett as his nominee. The president and most other attendees at the gathering were maskless. Mr. Trump has since tested positive for the virus, as have several other guests. At least two Republican senators on the Judiciary Committee, Mike Lee of Utah and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, also tested positive after attending the event. Mr. Lee was on hand in the hearing room on Monday morning, having met the “criteria to end Covid-19 isolation for those with mild to moderate disease” according to a letter he received from the attending physician of Congress, Dr. Brian P. Monahan. The committee room, Hart 216, had been transformed into a sparse room, with just a handful of reporters, guests and staff in addition to most senators and Judge Barrett. The proceedings are playing out partially by video to allow senators who may be sick or worried about infection to participate remotely. No members of the public — including protesters whose confrontational style set the tone for other confirmation fights — are allowed in the hearing room. Compared to previous hearings, protesters were left to block the entrance to Senate buildings, carrying posters and signs aimed at swaying senators for or against the confirmation. By the time the committee broke for lunch, the Capitol Police had arrested at least 21 people gathered outside for “unlawful demonstration activities.” Most senators, except for Mr. Graham and Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat, had kept their masks on once the hearing began. A few senators, including Senators Kamala Harris of California, the Democratic nominee for vice president, Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, and Mr. Tillis were remote for the hearing. Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, also joined the hearing remotely as he finished out a period of self-quarantining after coming into contact with Mr. Lee. Mr. Cruz is expected to come to the hearing on Tuesday in-person, a spokeswoman said. Senate Republicans on Monday issued a lengthy document defending their decision to proceed, quoting a letter from J. Brett Blanton, the architect of the Capitol, to Mr. Graham in which he said the seating arrangements for the hearing had been designed “in accordance with established guidelines and in consultation with the Office of Attending Physician to comply with Covid-19 safety protocols.” Mr. Blanton said his office was also following ventilation guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, and that ventilation system in the room being used had “been evaluated to ensure they meet or exceed current standards.” Mr. Graham addressed the safety of holding a hearing during the pandemic first thing, saying that he doubted “there is any room in the country that’s been given more attention and detail to make sure it’s C.D.C. compliant.” He sought to dismiss criticisms from Democrats who said the hearings were unsafe and unnecessary to convene so quickly. “There are millions of Americans, cops, waitresses, nurses, you name it, going to work today to do their job and we’re going to work in the Senate to do our job,” he said. Should any more Republican senators fall ill, it could complicate Judge Barrett’s chances of confirmation. With two members of the party, Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, already opposed to proceeding before Election Day, Republicans, who control the Senate by a 53-to-47 majority, can afford to lose only one more vote. At Judge Barrett’s desk, she had been given a box of Clorox wipes and a sizeable bottle of Purell, in addition to the customary bottles of water and note pad, and several other senators had their own Purell bottles and boxes of wipes. Her family was seated behind her, with Mark Meadows and Pat Cipollone, masked and distanced, seated on her other side. — Nicholas Fandos and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Republicans and Democrats are competing to define Judge Barrett. Republican Senators Mike Lee of Utah, left, Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, center, and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina before the hearing. Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times Though fights over Supreme Court nominees have become increasingly bitter in recent years, no modern confirmation battle has played out so close to a major presidential election. That contest, and the race for control of the Senate, is omnipresent in the hearings, shaping the strategies of both parties. Republicans — who are trailing in the polls — hope to use the confirmation fight to stoke enthusiasm among their base, but also coax back independent voters, especially women, who are abandoning the party in droves. To that end, they plan to largely bypass the policy implications of the court’s rightward tilt in favor of Judge Barrett’s personal story, stressing her legal expertise as an appeals court judge and Notre Dame law professor, and her experience as a working mother of seven. Senator John Cornyn, Republican of Texas, said his constituents “want to know how you do it. How do you and your husband manage two full-time professional careers and at the same time manage your large families?” “I’ll bet there are many young women, like my own two daughters, who marvel at the balance you have achieved,” Mr. Cornyn added. Republicans also want to try to goad Democrats into questioning Judge Barrett’s impartiality based on her Catholic faith, as they did during a 2017 hearing on her nomination for an appeals court seat. Republicans believe if Democrats take the bait, they could stir up a political backlash like the one that helped motivate their base during the 2018 confirmation battle over Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh. Democrats are taking the inverse approach. They are attempting to hammer Republicans on what Judge Barrett’s confirmation could mean for a series of popular policies and potent campaign-trail issues, like the health care law, abortion rights and same-sex marriage. They will point to Judge Barrett’s record to argue she could undermine all three if confirmed. As Ms. Feinstein began speaking, aides unveiled a series of massive posters showing selfies and family photos of children and families who Democrats said would be impacted by the repeal of the Affordable Care Act. “We will examine the consequences if — and that’s a big if — Republicans succeed in rushing through this nomination before the next president takes office,” Ms. Feinstein said, referring to the case the Supreme Court is set to hear the week after the election that challenges the constitutionality of the Affordable Care Act. Before the hearing got underway, Judge Barrett got a stamp of approval from the American Bar Association, which rates the qualifications of nominees for the federal bench. But even the professional group appears to have been somewhat split over her nomination. A majority of the group’s standing committee deemed her “well qualified,” while others determined she was simply “qualified.” —

Justice Ginsburg is evoked in accessories worn by Democratic senators. Image Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times Image Credit... Pool photo by Kevin Dietsch At least two Democratic senators, Mazie Hirono of Hawaii and Amy Klobuchar of Minnesota, wore accessories that evoked Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg. Both donned a lapel pin depicting the late justice and Ms. Hirono also wore a face mask with figures of Ms. Ginsburg in her robes. — Emily Cochrane and

Democrats Say Barrett Hearings Come at Expense of Virus Relief Senator Pat Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, speaking remotely during the hearing. Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times Democrats criticized Republicans for prioritizing Supreme Court confirmation hearings over a coronavirus stimulus bill, accusing them of “wearing blinders” to the suffering of American families and businesses. “We shouldn’t spending time on this when we are doing absolutely nothing to pass a much-needed Covid bill,” Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont, the top Democrat on the Senate Appropriations Committee, declared in his opening remarks. He said his Republican colleagues “have nothing to say” about the thousands of Americans who had died from the virus. Some Republican senators and aides have privately warned that with just three weeks before Election Day, there is not enough legislative time to hold votes both to confirm Judge Barrett and to agree on and pass a relief package that would infuse the economy with tens of billions of dollars and provide federal funds to American families, businesses, and schools. When he abruptly cut off talks last week, President Trump said Republicans should focus instead on installing his Supreme Court nominee. But on Monday, Mr. Trump, clearly monitoring the proceedings, said on Twitter that the Senate could do both — if Republicans would block Democrats from even speaking at the confirmation hearings. The Republicans are giving the Democrats a great deal of time, which is not mandated, to make their self serving statements relative to our great new future Supreme Court Justice. Personally, I would pull back, approve, and go for STIMULUS for the people!!! — Donald J. Trump (@realDonaldTrump) October 12, 2020 Mr. Trump’s confidence was unfounded. Republicans were not exactly poised to act on coronavirus stimulus, even if a Supreme Court nomination had not summoned lawmakers back from the campaign trail for a rare October hearing. Senate Republicans who have not been a part of negotiations between Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, revolted on Saturday over the compromise plan under discussion, making it clear in a contentious phone call that they had serious concerns with its size and contents. The opposition was so severe that Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, told senators that he would relay their concerns to Mr. Trump, but “you all will have to come to my funeral” after he delivered their message. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Judge Barrett will stress her biography and the influence of Justice Antonin Scalia. At the end of the day, Judge Barrett will have a chance to reintroduce herself uninterrupted by partisan bickering, and she intends to highlight her commitment to family and the legal philosophy championed by Antonin Scalia, the justice who died in 2016 and for whom she clerked. According to opening remarks circulated by the White House on Sunday, Judge Barrett plans to spend ample time discussing her love of family — describing each of her seven children individually — her upbringing as a Catholic in New Orleans, and her experiences as a student, clerk and then law professor at Notre Dame. She will specifically pay tribute to two women — Justices Sandra Day O’Connor and Ruth Bader Ginsburg — who broke the Supreme Court’s glass ceiling. “I have been nominated to fill Justice Ginsburg’s seat, but no one will ever take her place,” she plans to say. “I will be forever grateful for the path she marked and the life she led.” But her judicial philosophy could not be more opposite from that of the woman whose seat she intends to fill. Like Justice Scalia, Judge Barrett is described as a textualist and originalist. That means she prefers to interpret the plain words of a legal statute over the intent of the lawmakers and to read the Constitution based on the understanding of its framers. “Courts are not designed to solve every problem or right every wrong in our public life,” Judge Barrett plans to say. “The policy decisions and value judgments of government must be made by the political branches elected by and accountable to the people. The public should not expect courts to do so, and courts should not try.” —

Barrett’s record: a conservative who would push the Supreme Court to the right. Supporters of Judge Barrett praying outside the Supreme Court on Monday. Credit... Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times Judge Amy Coney Barrett, President Trump’s pick for the Supreme Court, has compiled an almost uniformly conservative voting record in cases touching on abortion, gun rights, discrimination and immigration. If she is confirmed, she would move the court slightly but firmly to the right, making compromise less likely and putting at risk the right to abortion established in Roe v. Wade. Judge Barrett’s judicial opinions, based on a substantial sample of the hundreds of cases that she has considered in her three years on the federal appeals court in Chicago, are marked by care, clarity and a commitment to the interpretive methods used by Justice Antonin Scalia, the giant of conservative jurisprudence for whom she worked as a law clerk from 1998 to 1999. But while Justice Scalia’s methods occasionally drove him to liberal results, notably in cases on flag burning and the role of juries in criminal cases, Judge Barrett could be a different sort of justice. “There may be fewer surprises from someone like her than there were from Justice Scalia,” said Brian T. Fitzpatrick, a former law clerk to the justice and a law professor at Vanderbilt University. “She is sympathetic to Justice Scalia’s methods, but I don’t get the sense that she is going to be a philosophical leader on how those methods should be executed.” One area in which almost no one expects surprises is abortion. Mr. Trump has vowed to appoint justices ready to overrule Roe v. Wade, the 1973 decision that established a constitutional right to abortion. Groups opposing abortion have championed Judge Barrett’s nomination. And her academic and judicial writings have been skeptical of broad interpretations of abortion rights. Judge Barrett will doubtless tell senators that the Roe decision is a settled precedent, as she did when Mr. Trump nominated her to the appeals court in 2017. And the Supreme Court may not hear a direct challenge to Roe anytime soon, preferring instead to consider cases that could chip away at abortion rights. But when the day comes, many of Judge Barrett’s supporters are convinced that she will not flinch. Justice Scalia wrote that the Constitution has nothing to say about abortion and that states should be allowed to decide the question for themselves. There is no reason to believe Judge Barrett disagrees. Overruling a major precedent is no small undertaking, of course. But Judge Barrett has indicated that some precedents are more worthy of respect than others. In a 2013 law review article, she examined the role of the doctrine of stare decisis, which is Latin for “to stand by things decided” and is shorthand for respect for precedent. The doctrine is, Judge Barrett wrote, “not a hard-and-fast rule in the court’s constitutional cases,” and she added that its power is diminished when the case under review is unpopular. “The public response to controversial cases like Roe,” she wrote, “reflects public rejection of the proposition that stare decisis can declare a permanent victor in a divisive constitutional struggle.” —

Here’s a schedule of the events ahead. After Monday’s opening statements, senators will dive into multiple, extended rounds of questioning with Judge Barrett on Tuesday and Wednesday. Though the format will be different — and there could be some elements of surprise — do not expect to learn much about Judge Barrett’s specific legal views on the most politically sensitive matters that could come before the court. Like earlier nominees, she is expected to refuse to answer questions that might compromise her ability to rule impartially on future cases. On Thursday, the committee will convene again to hear from a panel of outside witnesses testifying in favor of and opposition to Judge Barrett’s confirmation. Afterward, it will immediately begin deliberating over whether to recommend that she be confirmed. The debate will be fierce and partisan, but under the rules, Democrats will insist the panel wait a week to vote on her nomination. As of now, the Judiciary Committee plans to reconvene on Oct. 22 to approve the nomination. If all members of the panel are present, Republicans would have a clear majority and easily win the vote. But if any Republican lawmakers were unable to attend, they could quickly find themselves at a standstill. If approved, the nomination would then go to the full Senate for consideration. Senator Mitch McConnell, Republican of Kentucky and the majority leader, has not said when he will schedule a final vote, but it is expected to occur early the week of Oct. 26, in time for senators to race home for one final week of campaigning before the election. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story