--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8f4657b0526700185cc754?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  An Instagram influencer made over $1,000 in a week from its tipping feature, which it just expanded to more than 50,000 creators 
description: > 
  In its current iteration, more than 50,000 creators will be able to earn money through streaming on Instagram Live using Badges, which are tips paid for by followers.Instagram influencer Ronne Brown, who has had access to Badges for a few weeks, earned over $1,000 in her first week using the feature."We think Badges is a particularly good product for emerging creators," Instagram COO Justin Osofsky told Business Insider.The roll-out of tipping to Instagram follows a surge in its Live feature during the pandemic.For instance, from February to March, the company saw a 70% increase in views on Instagram Live. 
keywords: > 
  badges, 50000, osofsky, live, expanded, followers, 1000, tipping, influencers, week, business, influencer, instagram, feature, creators, money 
date: 1603310209.9836094 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Instagram is ramping up its test of a feature that lets people tip influencers during livestreams on the app, which it thinks will be especially popular among emerging creators.</li>
<li>In its current iteration, more than 50,000 creators will be able to earn money through streaming on Instagram Live using Badges, which are tips paid for by followers.</li>
<li>Instagram influencer Ronne Brown, who has had access to Badges for a few weeks, earned over $1,000 in her first week using the feature.</li>
<li>Business Insider spoke with Justin Osofsky, Instagram's chief operating officer, about the company's plans for tipping and its broader ambitions within creator monetization.</li>
<li><strong><a href="http://newsletter.businessinsider.com/join/influencerdashboard">Subscribe to Business Insider's influencer newsletter: Insider Influencers</a>.</strong></li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-media-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-media-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Instagram is ramping up its test of a feature that lets people tip influencers during livestreams on the app, which it thinks will be especially popular among creators without huge followings.</p><p>The tipping feature is centered on "Badges," which can be bought during a livestream. It allows influencers to earn money on Instagram without advertising brands or products. Instead, they are paid by their followers directly for their content.</p><p>"We think Badges is a particularly good product for emerging creators," Instagram COO Justin Osofsky told Business Insider. He defined emerging creators as influencers with a few thousand or tens of thousands of followers on the app. Influencers of this size are often referred to as "<a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/types-of-influencers-on-social-media-micro-macro-nano-classification-2020-1#1-nano-influencers-1">nano</a>" or "<a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/types-of-influencers-on-social-media-micro-macro-nano-classification-2020-1#2-micro-influencers-2">micro</a>" influencers.</p><p>Instagram announced on October 20 that it would roll out Badges for more than 50,000 creators as part of the app's beta-testing phase, following initial testing with a small group of creators that started in May.</p><p>"You can have followers, then you can have supporters, then you have freaking super fans," said Young Ezee, a comedian and content creator on Instagram and YouTube with <a href="https://www.instagram.com/youngezee/?hl=en">over one million followers</a>. "I feel like what Instagram is doing [with Badges] is creating super fans."</p><p>Ezee has been using the feature for about a month now and her livestreams usually bring in 3,000 to 6,000 viewers, she said.</p><p>Ronne Brown, an Instagram creator with <a href="https://www.instagram.com/ronnebrown/?hl=en">over 200,000 followers</a>, was given access to the feature a few weeks ago. She creates lifestyle content and also coaches women through GirlCEO, a platform she created for female entrepreneurs.&#160;</p><p>So far, she's "gone live" on Instagram about seven times and shares business tips and a bit of her personal life.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-media-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-media-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"Ones where I was natural, kind of off-guard, and it was like a behind the scenes of my life and my kids are running around and I'm trying to give value at the same time, they were like, a $200 live," Brown told Business Insider.</p><p>In her first week of using the feature, she earned over $1,000, which was verified through documentation seen by Business Insider.</p><p>The roll-out of tipping to Instagram follows a surge in its Live feature during the pandemic. For instance, from February to March, the company saw a <a href="https://about.instagram.com/en-us/blog/announcements/supporting-creators-on-instagram">70% increase in views on Instagram Live</a>. The tipping feature is also similar to other livestream offerings on apps like like <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/how-twitch-affiliate-streamers-earn-money-payout-ad-revenue-bits-2020-3">Twitch</a> or <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-make-money-on-instagram-youtube-tiktok-guide-2020-9#livestream-on-social-media-3">TikTok.</a></p><p>Badges can be bought at three price points ($0.99, $1.99, or $4.99) and &#160;Instagram is not taking a cut of the money made through tips.</p><p>"We're giving 100% of the money to creators," Osofsky said. "Over time as we scale the products, we do anticipate coming up with the right business model, but a lot of this will be influenced by what we learned in the test."</p><p>Apple or Google, however, take a 30% cut of the transactions (depending on whether the user is on iOS or Android).</p><p>Instagram will also start "matching" the tips (effectively doubling their pay rate) in November for an indefinite time period, up to $5,000.</p><h2>Different ways for influencers to make money at different career stages</h2><p>Introducing Badges is part of Instagram's plan to bolster its arsenal of ways influencers can earn money.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-media-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-media-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"We're trying to build an overall product suite to give creators ways to make money at different stages in their careers," Osofsky said.&#160;</p><p>"As creators become more established, some of the more mature monetization products come into play and that's more branded content," Osofsky said. Instagram has a tool that allows brands to activate a creator's post with the "paid sponsorship" label, which also provides brands with metrics and access to that post's performance.&#160;</p><p>But for creators who are emerging and have not yet landed brand sponsorships, Badges are a way to make money without brands, Osofsky said.&#160;</p><p>Instagram also announced it is expanding access to IGTV's (Instagram's YouTube-like video format) ad revenue share feature, similar to YouTube's Partner Program, which allows creators to earn money through 15-second ads placed on their IGTV videos. Creators will earn a 55% commission, "the industry standard," Osofsky said.&#160;</p><p>"As you grow into a broader audience, the rev share on IGTV ads can be quite meaningful," Osofsky said. Like on YouTube, growing an audience and keeping that audience engaged on a video is an important factor that impacts how much money can be earned through ad revenue.&#160;</p><p><strong>To learn more about how influencers are monetizing Instagram, YouTube, and TikTok, read these Business Insider articles:</strong></p> 
                  </div>