--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8766802a400c0019debbac?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Analytics play a critical role in digital transformation. Here's how to start. 
description: > 
  Artificial intelligence, machine learning, and predictive analytics are sometimes lumped together as the same thing.Predictive analytics can trace its origins back to Thomas Bayes, who laid the foundation to Bayesian probability theory in 1736.It's entirely reasonable to have predictive analytics based on sound math coded into solutions.At Micro Focus, we have ML algorithms embedded in some of our products that were created over a decade ago.Yes, analytics, especially the self-learned type, play a very important role in getting value out of a digital transformation. 
date: 1603173660.4410439 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Artificial intelligence, machine learning, and predictive analytics are sometimes lumped together as the same thing.</li>
<li>In fact, there are subtle, but important, differences between them.</li>
<li>Regardless of the specific application, these forms of advanced analytics have some common threads &#8212; and importantly, they can have a material impact on how successful an organization can be with its digital transformation initiatives.</li>
</ul><p>By Lars Rossen, PhD, fellow, chief technology officer, Micro Focus</p><p>Artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), and predictive analytics (PA) are current buzzwords eclipsing the tech industry hype curve. At this point, most tech savvy people are tired of hearing how these techniques will save the day. Let's eliminate some of the hype and paint a more realistic picture of what's happening with these technologies.</p><h2><strong>How old are AI, ML, and PA?</strong></h2><p>All three are surprisingly old concepts. Predictive analytics can trace its origins back to Thomas Bayes, who laid the foundation to Bayesian probability theory in 1736. (This foundation is still used today in many predictive algorithms.) Nothing new here, except within the last 50 years, computers have made it much easier to work with the math.&#160;</p><p>Humans are notoriously bad at making predictions. Unrealistic optimism makes people think bad things are less likely to happen to them than to others, and it hampers their decision-making. As soon as there is more than one variable to consider, humans consistently respond incorrectly. Knowing that, it makes sense that we would let the computer make the predictions. It's entirely reasonable to have predictive analytics based on sound math coded into solutions.</p><p>What about artificial intelligence? Also old. George Boole started formalizing logical reasoning around 1840. Much later, Alan Turing applied this to computers in the 1940s. Since then, AI has gone hot and cold many times. The last time was in the 80s with the advent of "Expert Systems" which was interesting in that facts were inserted into the systems to assist humans in reasoning.</p><h2><strong>How to get past the hype machine</strong></h2><p>If PA and AI are so old, what is new? And more importantly, why is it that we're seeing all of this hype &#8230; again? As in the 80s with AI, systems need to be fed facts in order to predict. There are a few reasons why:</p><ul><li>New algorithms and more importantly, much more powerful computers, allow the systems to learn from raw data. The AI and PA have become self-learning. This is the ML aspect.</li><li>As organizations have rapidly embraced digital transformations, more data is available than ever before.</li><li>Consumers and users demand personalization in this newly digitally transformed world.</li></ul><p>While the enterprise does not have the manpower to optimize the business individually to each consumer, with the right AI, ML, and PA, and some raw compute power, they absolutely can.</p><p>Unfortunately, the way marketing works these days, we will not be eliminating hype or buzzwords any time soon. If a product has just one "if then else" statement somewhere in its code, then marketers will label it an AI solution: See, it is making decisions!</p><p>But, the opposite can be true as well. At Micro Focus, we have ML algorithms embedded in some of our products that were created over a decade ago. People often react: "This software is old", insinuating age as a reason for it not being real AI. That can't be farther from the truth.</p><h2><strong>Think it through </strong></h2><p>My recommendations are to evaluate your options through a few important steps. Remove all the buzzwords from the discussion and lean on the vendor to describe what is delivered and why that is good for your business without using the words ML, AI, PA. Secondly, consider very carefully if the needed data can be provided for the algorithms to deliver real, useful results. It has proven again and again that creating good learning data can be very challenging and relying on algorithms people do not understand will lead to costly mistakes. The old mantra "garbage in, garbage out" is now truer than ever.</p><p>Yes, analytics, especially the self-learned type, play a very important role in getting value out of a digital transformation. However, AI, ML, and PA are not magical words that will suddenly grant a competitive edge. The successful organizations will be the ones that transform by collecting and organizing data as a first step. Those actively engaged in applying these powerful tools to data they already understand can create a massive competitive edge while catering to consumers individually.</p><p><strong><a href="https://www.microfocus.com/en-us/digital-transformation/our-perspective" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener sponsored">Learn more about how Micro Focus can help your business with digital transformation here.</a></strong></p><p>This post was created by <a href="https://www.microfocus.com/en-us/digital-transformation/our-perspective" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener sponsored">Micro Focus</a> with <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/sponsor-posts?_ga=2.7594804.748993769.1576513703-372096675.1574180919" target="_blank" rel="nofollow noopener sponsored">Insider Studios</a>.</p>
                  </div>