--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://nypost.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2020/10/anders-lee-islanders-disappointment-new-season.jpg?quality=90&strip=all&w=1200 
title: > 
  Anders Lee stuck with Islanders disappointment waiting for new season 
description: > 
  But for the Islanders, according to captain Anders Lee, it may “sting” to think about more than most.And I think that sting and that disappointment, it’ll never leave you, I don’t think.But after coming as close as the Isles did, it makes this waiting period until the 2020-21 season seem that much more unbearable.As the Islanders’ Players Association representative, Lee was part of the ‘Return to Play’ committee that worked with the league to finish the 2019-20 season.As much as the Islanders would like to make another run for the Cup with the same squad they had this past season, Lee knows that’s not the reality of this league. 
date: 1603139290.8551037 
--- 
<div><p>For obvious reasons, the 2019-20 season will be one that no NHL team can forget. But for the Islanders, according to captain Anders Lee, it may &#8220;sting&#8221; to think about more than most.</p>
<p>The Islanders came just two wins away from securing a spot in the Stanley Cup Final, working their way from the seven-game losing streak they took into the COVID-19 shutdown in March to becoming the last team which competed in the qualifying round to be left standing in the expanded playoffs.</p>
<p>&#8220;Taking 10 months to complete and all the things that everyone went through from the shutdown, where we were as a team before that and then I think how we came out of it and the run that we went on, I think there&#8217;s always going to be that sting of not completing what we set out to do,&#8221; Lee said on a Zoom call Monday morning. &#8220;I look back on it now, a month out, still pretty special. We learned a lot, we did a lot. And I think that sting and that disappointment, it&#8217;ll never leave you, I don&#8217;t think. But I think it&#8217;s something we can handle and grow from.&#8221;</p>
<p>When Lee says this past season is something <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/09/29/lou-lamoriellos-early-plan-for-islanders-to-take-next-step/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the team can grow from</a>, he unequivocally means returning to the Eastern Conference finals and then even further. But after coming as close as the Isles did, it makes this waiting period until the 2020-21 season seem that much more unbearable.</p>
<p>&#8220;It&#8217;s a long road [to the Stanley Cup] regardless and now that we, as a group, accomplished a decent amount of it, it excites you to get back to that spot. That&#8217;s for sure,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p>As the Islanders&#8217; Players Association representative, Lee was part of the &#8216;Return to Play&#8217; committee that worked with the league to finish the 2019-20 season. He said he hasn&#8217;t volunteered to help plan this upcoming season, but expects to be involved if needed.</p>
<p>As of Monday, Lee said he knows just as much as everyone else regarding next season. The NHL and NHLPA are continuing to work toward a Jan. 1 start date, and Lee is sure it&#8217;ll come to fruition. He said he hopes to be on the ice as soon as possible.</p>
<p>Until then, Lee has been in his home state of Minnesota for what he described as &#8220;the longest I&#8217;ve been here during the fall since high school.&#8221; He said his time at home reminds him of when play was abruptly suspended and everyone was instructed to quarantine.</p>
<p>&#8220;We have a future date and a future goal as a league and whatnot to get back on the ice, but as we know this is also fluid,&#8221; Lee said. &#8220;You just kind of take your time to recover from the season and you jump right back into it. That&#8217;s been fun to do and look forward to and all those things, but it&#8217;s definitely just been a different time for everybody.&#8221;</p>
<p>To be experiencing the roster changes that come with the offseason during this time in limbo has likely been strange. Defenseman Devon Toews was <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/10/12/islanders-trade-devon-toews-to-avalanche-to-make-cap-space/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">shipped to the Avalanche last week</a> for Colorado&#8217;s second-round draft picks in 2021 and 2022.</p>
<p>As much as the Islanders would like to <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/09/26/you-better-believe-new-yorks-next-championship-is-on-the-way/" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">make another run for the Cup</a> with the same squad they had this past season, Lee knows that&#8217;s not the reality of this league.</p>
<p>&#8220;Any time you have that turnover in the offseason, that&#8217;s the stuff that you don&#8217;t look forward to when this time comes,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Especially this year, it&#8217;s going to be a bummer not having him in the room next year. But we know how great of a player and person he is, he&#8217;s going to be great out west.&#8221;</p>
			</div>