--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/football/2020/10/19/242329698_AFP_FBL-FRA-LIGUE1-PSG-HERRERA-ESP_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqVzuuqpFlyLIwiB6NTmJwViJj1eTvcjzL4JkNP_PJEs.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Ander Herrera exclusive interview: 'I respect Manchester United - leaving was very painful for me' 
description: > 
  “In saying that I have a huge respect for [executive vice-chairman] Ed Woodward, a huge respect for the board.We just had different opinions about Manchester United and, in my opinion, what the club should have done.I told him to play for Manchester United is an opportunity that is for the rest of your life.To play for other clubs in the Premier League you are a Premier League player but if you are a Manchester United player then you are a Manchester United player for life.I have been all around the world and been recognised as a Manchester United player and I have the respect of everyone. 
date: 1603156958.4869177 
--- 
<div><p>&#8220;My intention was not to leave the club and I was happy there- as happy as I am now here," Herrera explains. "It was not a secret. I was negotiating for more than one year but I expected more from the board after my third season at the club when I was player of the year. They didn&#8217;t come to me that summer; they didn&#8217;t even call me. And that was very painful for me because I had a feeling that I was giving everything.</p>
<p>&#8220;In saying that I have a huge respect for [executive vice-chairman] Ed Woodward, a huge respect for the board. They have always treated me fantastically. I know they want the best for Manchester United but in football, in life and in every company in the world sometimes you don&#8217;t think the same way and I respect that. If I see Ed I will give him a hug. We just had different opinions about Manchester United and, in my opinion, what the club should have done.</p>
<p>&#8220;I want to make sure everyone understands there is nothing personal at all. That&#8217;s life. But it&#8217;s true &#8211; after the third season when I was player of the year, when I had the respect and the love from the fans, I didn&#8217;t feel that love from the club.&#8221;</p>
<p>Herrera&#8217;s bond with United remains strong and it was telling that he was the last person who his former PSG team-mate, Edinson Cavani, called <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/football/2020/10/06/edinson-cavani-superstar-striker-mean-streak-will-want-prove/">before he joined the club on deadline day.</a></p>
<p>&#8220;I think we spoke about five minutes before he said yes,&#8221; Herrera explains. &#8220;He called me and said, &#8216;I need to make a decision now and you are the last person I am speaking to before I make that decision&#8217;. I told him to play for Manchester United is an opportunity that is for the rest of your life. To play for other clubs in the Premier League you are a Premier League player but if you are a Manchester United player then you are a Manchester United player for life.</p>
<p>&#8220;It is different. I have been all around the world and been recognised as a Manchester United player and I have the respect of everyone. I think Cavani is also made for Old Trafford; the way he fights for every ball &#8211; even the way he celebrates goals, he is a very Manchester United player. I told him he was going to play for the biggest club in the UK. I don&#8217;t think he needed to hear that from me but mine was the last opinion.&#8221;</p>
 
<p>While Cavani has been deemed not yet match-fit for Tuesday night&#8217;s game in Paris, it remains a mouthwatering first clash in a daunting Champions League group that also includes RB Leipzig and Turkish champions, Istanbul Basaksehir.</p>
<p>PSG overcame Leipzig in the last four of last season&#8217;s competition <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/football/2020/08/23/psg-vs-bayern-munich-champions-league-final-2020-live-score2/">before narrowly losing the final 1-0 to Bayern Munich.</a> The disappointment took some time to get over. &#8220;You need that time to re-start, to get some energy. It&#8217;s football,&#8221; Herrera says. &#8220;I guess Tottenham had a difficult few months after they reached the final the year before because similar to us it was the first time they had done that.</p>
<p>&#8220;I have the feeling that in this group you cannot make too many mistakes and as soon as you lose one game you are in trouble,&#8221; Herrera says. &#8220;But these are the kind of games you want to play in the Champions League.</p>
<p>&#8220;We have done something great and the experience of other clubs is that when they reach one final in the next few years they reach more. That says it&#8217;s not the only opportunity. We will be back and are ready to fight again and take the club to another European final."</p>
<p>Last season's defeat to Bayern may have been deflating but it has not dimmed the ambition in the French capital. &#8220;The ambition is huge,&#8221; Herrera says. &#8220;It is only about winning. You cannot compare 142 years of history [at United] to 50 [at PSG]. But the way this club has grown up is unbelievable. In 50 years I don&#8217;t think there is a comparison in the way it has developed into one of the biggest clubs in Europe.&#8221;</p>
</div>