--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/politics/2020/10/21/TELEMMGLPICT000242407160_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bq8VAndPZ2Bz0AY_iRYVPZ5Cj7kXHdv-3WejwTiuL1T2o.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Are we witnessing the start of ambitious Andy's Third Coming? 
description: > 
  Like Sadiq Khan, Burnham left the Commons with the hope, if not the expectation, that he might one day return to lead his party.But so long as Corbyn remained leader, his opportunities to shine as a political figurehead were limited.The arrivals of Starmer and Covid-19 have transformed his profile – and his fortunes – in a remarkably short space of time.The Manchester Mayor has all the presence, intelligence and good looks (his eyelashes were the talk, and the envy, of colleagues – many of them women – in the Commons tearoom) that one could wish for in a political leader.Provided he bides his time – and he has shown more than once that patience is his greatest virtue – we may yet be witness to Andy’s Third Coming. 
keywords: > 
  opportunities, witnessing, political, party, space, leader, andys, proved, coming, ambitious, burnham, progress, starmer, shown, start 
date: 1603294067.3347254 
--- 
<div><p>Careful to appear loyal to a man who cruelly upset the applecart and won the hearts and minds [sic] of party members, Burnham stayed on for a while, biting his tongue, nurturing his image as an uber-loyalist, knowing that any future opportunities for advancement would depend on the good will of many of those who, for reasons best known to themselves, thought Corbyn could ever become prime minister. Then he returned to the North.</p>
<p>Like <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/17/london-deserves-great-statesman-charge-instead-has-sadiq-khan/">Sadiq Khan</a>, Burnham left the Commons with the hope, if not the expectation, that he might one day return to lead his party.&#160;But so long as Corbyn remained leader, his opportunities to shine as a political figurehead were limited. The arrivals of Starmer and Covid-19 have transformed his profile &#8211; and his fortunes &#8211; in a remarkably short space of time.</p>
<p>Starmer retains the overwhelming support of the party membership, particularly its MPs. But the pandemic has increased the tension that is ever present between Labour&#8217;s various, continually warring factions. Burnham&#8217;s re-emergence into the spotlight comes at an inconvenient time for the leadership, given the doubts that have emerged since April about Starmer&#8217;s ability to win back those damned elusive Red Wall seats lost in the North and the Midlands. He has made solid progress, but, as the 2015 leadership election proved, Labour members aren&#8217;t impressed by steady progress; they much prefer the unlikely drama of a leader arriving in a blaze of glory and sorting everything with an inspirational word and a kind smile.</p>
<p>For the time being, Burnham is more of an asset to Starmer than a threat. The Manchester Mayor has all the presence, intelligence and good looks (his eyelashes were the talk, and the envy, of colleagues &#8211; many of them women &#8211; in the Commons tearoom) that one could wish for in a political leader. It would be utterly self-destructive for Labour to revert to type and try to isolate or otherwise undermine a man who has proved his political effectiveness against the Government. Only a leader besieged by insecurities &#8211; and insecure advisers &#8211; would do so.</p>
<p>Nevertheless, Burnham has shown the kind of resilience that voters tend to admire. Provided he bides his time &#8211; and he has shown more than once that patience is his greatest virtue &#8211; we may yet be witness to Andy&#8217;s Third Coming. Watch this space.</p>
</div>