--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/19/us/politics/19michigansenate-1/19michigansenate-1-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Are Michigan Democrats in Trouble in Their Senate Race? 
description: > 
  The race — one of a handful that could tip the balance in the Senate — is among the most contested and expensive in the country.Polls show a tighter race than Democrats had anticipated, and both sides are fighting for the few remaining independent, undecided voters.Polls have varied but show Mr. James with an outside chance of helping Republicans flip a Democratic seat.A New York Times/Siena College survey found Mr. Peters up by one point, while others put his lead in the mid-to-high single digits.The outside political group leading efforts for Democrats, Senate Majority PAC, put $4.4 million into Michigan last week, federal filings show — bringing its total spending in the race to over $18 million. 
date: 1603104125.6068976 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">For John James, the self-described nonpartisan Republican, success will come from the opposite situation: If enough people voting for former <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/12/upshot/polls-wisconsin-michigan-election.html?" title="">Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr.</a> cross over to support a Republican for the Senate.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The race &#8212; one of a handful that could tip the balance in the Senate &#8212; is among the most contested and expensive in the country. Polls show a tighter race than Democrats had anticipated, and both sides are fighting for the few remaining independent, undecided voters. In an election in which the parties have focused on getting their base to turn out, Michigan stands out as a place where winning the middle could make the difference.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Polls have varied but show Mr. James with an outside chance of helping Republicans flip a Democratic seat. A New York Times/Siena College survey found Mr. Peters up by one point, while others put his lead in the mid-to-high single digits.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Money has been pouring in. The outside political group leading efforts for Democrats, Senate Majority PAC, put $4.4 million into Michigan last week, federal filings show  &#8212; bringing its total spending in the race to over $18 million. The only state where it spent more last week was Georgia. Republicans countered by adding another $5.6 million to the $9 million they had already pledged to spend in the final weeks.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">It&#8217;s all been a bit disorienting for some voters.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Charles Gaba, a health policy analyst and Democrat from the Detroit suburb of Bloomfield Township, said that his friends who weren&#8217;t as politically tuned in were not sure which candidate was the Republican and which was the Democrat. Compounding the issue, Mr. Gaba said, is the fact that Mr. James is Black, which probably makes some people assume that he is a Democrat. Mr. Peters, a middle-aged white man, fits the stereotypical image of a Republican.</p></div>