--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/art/2020/10/20/TELEMMGLPICT000241203927_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqM37qcIWR9CtrqmiMdQVx7GgL7o0_ESnuLxJzSWOePQE.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Art-world elites should stop thinking they’re superior to the public 
description: > 
  As Navarro says: “What do we do with the pictures of the girls, or the ones of the slaves?Our age suffers acutely from the illusion that it is somehow the best, the most ethical.This literalism is not a good sign: it implies that people no longer trust themselves or others to understand works in context.Art is, in practice, becoming harder and harder to see, and more onerous to organise, even where lockdowns permit it.The world will respect them for it, and return in droves when the world opens up again. 
date: 1603210218.5734417 
--- 
<div><p>The Prado show points to a dilemma haunting many cultural bastions today, particularly those whose collections harbour unsavoury works by now-denounced artists, or which receive money, past or present, from dubious sources (which is many of them). After a summer of iconoclasm, which saw statues of slave-owners and now-loathed political figures vandalised or torn down, it&#8217;s no surprise that galleries and museums &#8211; not to mention uiversities and other educational organisations &#8211; are falling over themselves to encourage and exhibit minority artists of all kinds.&#160;</p>
<p>And this is all well and good. Many cultural fields have suffered from serious historical imbalances, not only in terms of the opportunities for those who seek to make work, but also at the level of the content of the works themselves. As Navarro says: &#8220;What do we do with the pictures of the girls, or the ones of the slaves? Our stores are full of these kinds of images, so what should we do with them?&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p>The history of the world, and of the artworks that emerge from it, is not a fair or pleasant one. Our age suffers acutely from the illusion that it is somehow the best, the most ethical. But the <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/books/what-to-read/man-hating-may-seem-predictable-now-weak-society-panics-free/">ever-growing desire for moralism</a>, the yearning to recast the history of images and image-makers in a neo-religious light, as either &#8220;good&#8221; or &#8220;problematic&#8221;, has terrible consequences for our understanding of what art is, and how we might individually and collectively interpret it.&#160;</p>
<p>There is, it seems to me, an increasingly stupid literalism at play, in which an artwork (or a whole exhibition) about something becomes understood as a simple defence of that thing. This literalism is not a good sign: it implies that people no longer trust themselves or others to understand works in context. The fact that institutions often respond in panic to perceived public outrage, even where this amounts to a few tweets or emails &#8211; as in the case of Tate cancelling the Guston show &#8211; says terrible things about their priorities.&#160;</p>
<p>Art is, in practice, becoming harder and harder to see, and more onerous to organise, even where lockdowns permit it. Now is the time to boldly present other worlds. Galleries, museums and educational establishments should be standing up for the artistic and expressive values they claim to believe in, not worrying about their image or funding sources. The world will respect them for it, and return in droves when the world opens up again.</p>
</div>