--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://m.files.bbci.co.uk/modules/bbc-morph-news-waf-page-meta/4.1.3/bbc_news_logo.png 
title: > 
  As it happened: US election 2020 latest: Early votes in US election 'already top 40m' 
description: > 
  Two weeks before the US presidential election, Joe Biden has removed himself from the campaign trail for several days to prepare for his final debate with Donald Trump.Running mate Kamala Harris is still travelling after a two-day break following a positive coronavirus test from a communications aide, but she’s been largely inaccessible to her accompanying press pool.In part, the Biden team’s low-key approach to campaigning is reflection of the realities of electoral politics during the Covid-19 pandemic.It’s a classic strategy for a front-runner – which, if polls are to be believed, Biden is at this point.If things are going well, and one’s opponent isn’t helping his own cause, the best course is to stay out of the way. 
keywords: > 
  votes, happened, early, 2020, president, final, willing, biden, strategy, latest, election, realities, 40m, press, trump, public, risk 
date: 1603326792.4490325 
--- 
<div><p>Two weeks before the US presidential election, Joe Biden has removed himself from the campaign trail for several days to prepare for his final debate with Donald Trump. Running mate Kamala Harris is still travelling after a two-day break following a positive coronavirus test from a communications aide, but she&#8217;s been largely inaccessible to her accompanying press pool.</p><p>As political reporter Jonathan Karl quipped, she took more questions from the cast of the Avengers films during a fund-raiser Tuesday night than she has from reporters since the Democratic convention.</p><p>In part, the Biden team&#8217;s low-key approach to campaigning is reflection of the realities of electoral politics during the Covid-19 pandemic. Unless you&#8217;re willing to disregard public health recommendations and hold packed rallies like the president &#8211; and risk contracting the virus, like the president &#8211; the normal frenzy of travel and public appearances even in the final stretch is necessarily limited.</p><p>In this case, however, these realities appear to dovetail with the Biden camp&#8217;s apparent strategy of playing it safe, limiting their exposure to the press and the public, and minimising the chance of gaffes or other mistakes that knock them off their message.</p><p>It&#8217;s a classic strategy for a front-runner &#8211; which, if polls are to be believed, Biden is at this point. If things are going well, and one&#8217;s opponent isn&#8217;t helping his own cause, the best course is to stay out of the way.</p><p>That leaves an opening for Trump and the Republicans to attack &#8220;hiding Biden&#8221; and suggest that he is not up to the pressures of the presidency, but that seems a risk the Democrats are willing to take. At least so far, it seems to be paying off.</p></div>