--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://cnet4.cbsistatic.com/img/0C9CRqVwQwTJO5IoeXysK7TAWR4=/1200x630/2019/01/04/7e6fd49f-1cf3-4d10-8e1c-0ea3f54964a5/dell-xps-13-16.jpg 
title: > 
  Best laptop for 2020 
description: > 
  This best laptop list has all the top models we've tested for work, school, gaming or entertainment -- for home or travel -- from the best laptop brand options in the market: Dell, Apple, Acer, HP, Asus, Microsoft, Lenovo and more.Not all of the laptops we review are here, though, so you can also read about the best gaming laptops, 15-inch laptops, two-in-ones and Chromebooks, as well as the best laptop for college students, the best laptop for creatives and the best MacBook Pro alternatives for the Windows set.For 2020, Dell made the laptop even smaller, while making the laptop screen larger and increasing performance for both CPU and graphics-intensive tasks.Regardless, the Air remains one of the best laptops available for battery life, performance and design.Lori Grunin / CNET Yes, the best gaming laptop at the moment is the same as our top pick for a MacBook Pro alternative. 
date: 1602212075.9184484 
--- 
This best laptop list has all the top models we've tested for work, school, gaming or entertainment -- for home or travel -- from the best laptop brand options in the market: Dell, Apple, Acer, HP, Asus, Microsoft, Lenovo and more. If, like a lot of us, you're working from home or doing remote learning, this list can help you find the perfect laptop to meet your needs.

Not all of the laptops we review are here, though, so you can also read about the best gaming laptops, 15-inch laptops, two-in-ones and Chromebooks, as well as the best laptop for college students, the best laptop for creatives and the best MacBook Pro alternatives for the Windows set. Plus, if you just want pure power or a long-life battery, our rankings of battery life and performance are for you. Need to stay as low as possible on the price of a new laptop? Check out our picks for budget laptops and budget gaming laptops or see all of CNET's laptop reviews.

Sarah Tew/CNET The XPS 13 is a perennial favorite for its size, weight and performance and just overall good looks. For 2020, Dell made the laptop even smaller, while making the laptop screen larger and increasing performance for both CPU and graphics-intensive tasks. It's not a huge leap, but it's still the best in the category. And for those who want the latest and greatest Intel processors, the XPS 13, as well as the company's XPS 13 2-in-1, are available with the chipmaker's 11th-gen Core processors. Read our Dell XPS 13 (2020) review.

Sarah Tew/CNET E D I T O R S ’ C H O I C E HP outdid itself on its latest ultraportable premium two-in-one. At first glance it might seem like little more than a processor update -- this laptop computer is running on a great 10th-gen Intel CPU -- the latest x360 is significantly smaller than its predecessor without sacrificing usability. New features like an instant mic mute button join other privacy and security features like an IR camera and fingerprint reader and switch to disable its webcam. Plus, it's available with 4G LTE wireless so you can get your work done wherever and whenever you want. Read our HP Spectre x360 13 (late 2019) review.

Sarah Tew/CNET The combination of the larger MacBook Pro's hardware and MacOS extracts the maximum performance from the components while delivering class-leading battery life in a way Windows systems never seem to do, and the high resolution display screen remains terrific. Plus, this model's keyboard uses scissor-style switches under the keycaps, rather than the much-derided butterfly-style switch. You pay for it, though -- base price for the 16-inch model of this device is $2,399. Read our Apple MacBook Pro (16-inch, 2019) review.

Sarah Tew/CNET E D I T O R S ’ C H O I C E This is our go-to recommendation for those in search of a MacOS laptop for everyday basic use. The MacBook Air was updated for 2020 with new processors and, most importantly, a new keyboard. Apple also dropped the entry price back down to $1,000 making its most affordable laptop more affordable. Still, it's not exactly a bargain and you can get a lot more computer for your money if you go with Windows. Regardless, the Air remains one of the best laptops available for battery life, performance and design. Read our Apple MacBook Air 2020 review.

Josh Goldman / CNET A remarkable deal for simple tasks like email, word processing and much more, thanks to the new AMD Ryzen 5 and Ryzen 7 processors. This budget laptop has a backlit keyboard, a fingerprint reader and a USB Type-C port, too. It's also incredibly light -- less than 3 pounds -- for a laptop that can be found for less than $700. We're also fans of the Acer Aspire 5, which has a larger 15.6-inch display. It's available in a variety of configurations starting as low as $400, but can go up to $830 if you want entry-level discrete graphics for basic gaming and content creation. Read our Acer Swift 3 (14-inch, 2020) review.

Sarah Tew/CNET Dell's G-series gaming laptops are cheaper than those from its Alienware division, but still capable of playing the latest AAA titles. There are three separate models -- the G3, G5 and G7 -- available in 15- and 17-inch sizes. The midrange G5 15 hits the mark with an excellent price-to-performance ratio, build quality and design. The newest versions start at $910, including a special-edition model with AMD's impressive Ryzen 5 4600H processor.

Joshua Goldman/CNET There are simply no other 17-inch laptops that are this light and also have long battery life. The Gram 17 lasted 13 hours on our streaming video test, beating last year's model by 47 minutes on the same test. Processor performance is stepped up some from the 2019 version, too, thanks to the addition of a 10th-gen Intel Core i7 processor. This is partnered with more powerful Iris Plus integrated graphics as well, giving you a little extra speed for photo and video editing and casual gaming. Read our LG Gram 17 (2020) review.

Sarah Tew/CNET E D I T O R S ’ C H O I C E Though HP and Dell have excellent premium two-in-one convertible laptops, they have small 13.3- and 13.4-inch displays. If you want a bit more room for your work or entertainment, the 14-inch C940 is a great choice. One of Intel's Project Athena laptops, the C940 is tuned to be more responsive and for longer battery life. Everything about it is fast. Plus, it's one of the few that come with a pen, which stores and charges in the body. Read our Lenovo Yoga C940 (14-inch) review.

Sarah Tew/CNET Regularly available for less than $750, this thin, 3-pound convertible is a solid choice for anyone who needs a laptop for office or schoolwork. The all-metal chassis gives it a premium look and feel, and it has a comfortable keyboard and responsive, smooth precision touchpad. Though it's light on extra features compared to its premium linemate, the C940, it does have one of Lenovo's sliding shutters for its webcam that gives you privacy when you want it. And it has a long battery life to boot. Read our Lenovo Yoga C740 (14-inch) review.

Lori Grunin/CNET While Asus and Lenovo have turned out great business laptops this year, this Latitude is our top pick at the moment. Co-engineered with Intel, the 9510 puts a 15-inch display in a 14-inch body but gets more than 20 hours of battery life and has a powerful Core i7 processor with vPro for security and remote management. It's available with 4G or 5G mobile connectivity and uses AI to learn how you work to give you the best performance regardless of if you're on battery or plugged in. Plus, it's available as either a traditional clamshell laptop or a two-in-one. Read our Dell Latitude 9510 hands-on.

Lori Grunin / CNET Yes, the best gaming laptop at the moment is the same as our top pick for a MacBook Pro alternative. There is one small exception, though: While we recommend getting this Blade Pro laptop with its 4K-resolution display option for creators, gamers will want to get the display with a 300MHz refresh rate that Razer offers for this model. Read our Razer Blade Pro 17 (early 2020) review.

More for people who spend all day on their computers

Originally published last year and updated periodically.