--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/womens-sport/2020/10/22/TWS-LEAD_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bq7X6VyzhDDWIHt8iEvIltgrBvtnfnIFoQId2o5lve8eo.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Bianca Williams exclusive interview: 'The way police treated me — I wouldn’t wish it on my worst enemy' 
description: > 
  Though officers eventually apologised and neither Butler nor her friend were searched, the blatant racial profiling Butler felt they had faced left her incensed.As black women with public profiles, both Butler and Williams felt it important to post about it on social media, to shine a light on the issue.It was either, ‘Team GB should remove Bianca’ or ‘I’m going to call social services on Bianca and her son’.Williams and Butler find it hard to fathom how far some people will go to deny racism.Both Butler and Williams reflect that, even now, people still need to “see racism” to believe it. 
keywords: > 
  wouldnt, treated, officers, wish, interview, black, felt, way, williams, stopped, threats, women, social, enemy, bianca, exclusive, butler, worst 
date: 1603359042.7613218 
--- 
<div><p>Butler has been stopped three times by police in her time as an MP for Brent Central and has been a vocal critic of the tactic. On Aug 9, she was stopped again, this time while being driven in Hackney by a male friend, who is also black. Though officers eventually apologised and neither Butler nor her friend were searched, the blatant racial profiling Butler felt they had faced left her incensed.</p>
<p>As black women with public profiles, both Butler and Williams felt it important to post about it on social media, to shine a light on the issue. But the backlash that came next was vicious, both tagged in targeted attacks.</p>
<p>&#8220;I&#8217;ve never really understood trolling until I was stopped by the police,&#8221; Williams, a Commonwealth and European gold medallist aiming for the Tokyo Olympics, says. &#8220;It is nasty. It was either, &#8216;Team GB should remove Bianca&#8217; or &#8216;I&#8217;m going to call social services on Bianca and her son&#8217;. It goes on now.&#8221;</p>
<p>As a politician, Butler, 50, is more familiar with anonymous keyboard bashers. In July she closed her office, owing partly to a string of death threats she received &#8211; she was even attacked on the Underground. The abuse her stop and search video garnered though, came mostly after Sir Steve House, the Metropolitan police deputy commissioner, defended the officers involved, she says. &#8220;When Steve House posted a statement saying he would have stopped us too, it felt like he was gaslighting me,&#8221; Butler says. &#8220;People piled in behind that. We had so many death threats, we couldn&#8217;t keep on top of all the abuse. Even now we can&#8217;t.&#8221;</p>
<p>Williams asks her how she copes with the constant anger flung her way online. Butler sighs, admitting it is not easy, but she reports threats to police and always finishes her time on social media with a positive message &#8211; advice Williams says she will try to take on board. &#8220;When a black woman isn&#8217;t scared of who she is, of speaking out, of wearing her hair naturally, it just seems to intimidate and infuriate people,&#8221; Butler says. &#8220;What they&#8217;re trying to do is shut us down.&#8221;</p>
<p>Online, conspiracy theorists have hounded the two women, accusing them of jumping to conclusions about why police chose to stop them or even of lying. Williams and Butler find it hard to fathom how far some people will go to deny racism.</p>
<p>The denials are part of the reason why they decided to post the videos, despite their discomfort in sharing the footage. It is also why they are sharing their conversation with Telegraph Women&#8217;s Sport. The Black Lives Matter protests in July, prompted by the police killing of George Floyd, have given new urgency to conversations about racism that black people routinely face. Both Butler and Williams reflect that, even now, people still need to &#8220;see racism&#8221; to believe it.</p>
<p>&#8220;All of a sudden white people in particular are finally seeing what it&#8217;s like to be black &#8211; that&#8217;s the importance of recording it,&#8221; Butler says. &#8220;I&#8217;m sure Bianca you didn&#8217;t really want to put it out there, but actually felt that people had to see what happened.</p>
<p>&#8220;At first, I wasn&#8217;t sure what I wanted to do,&#8221; Williams says. &#8220;And then I passed it on to my coach, and he was like, &#8216;You have to spread awareness that this happens to people of all kinds &#8211; elite athlete to the average Joe&#8217;.&#8221;</p>
<p>Both agree that their focus now is wanting to see real change. In Williams&#8217;s case, <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/08/five-met-officers-investigation-misconduct-bianca-williams-stop/">the incident is being investigated by the Independent Office for Police Conduct</a>, but the five officers involved are only under review for potential misconduct &#8211; not subject to a more serious gross misconduct investigation. Williams and Dos Santos say they may yet boycott the investigation for this reason.</p>
<p>Last year, Dame Cressida Dick, the Met police commissioner, declared that the organisation was no longer institutionally racist, a statement which prompted Butler to call for her resignation. Latest figures show that in London young black men were stopped and searched by police more than 20,000 times during the coronavirus lockdown, the equivalent of more than a quarter of all black 15 to 24-year-olds in the capital.</p>
</div>