--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/KCIZHCQSUYI6XOSC5RVFQCBW5U.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Britain to infect healthy volunteers with coronavirus in vaccine challenge trials 
description: > 
  The United States is moving more cautiously, with leading government researchers saying human challenge trials might be too risky or unnecessary.But the British government hopes challenge trials will help accelerate the study of vaccines in mid-stages of development.In the modern era, challenge trials have been used extensively to study and find treatments for influenza, malaria, typhoid, dengue fever and cholera.With that in mind, he said, the need for human challenge trials is clear.In the United States, the government has been funding researchers at Colorado State University to develop a potential challenge strain of the coronavirus that could be used if such experiments become necessary. 
date: 1603183882.7057295 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The United States is moving more cautiously, with leading government researchers saying human challenge trials might be too risky or unnecessary. But the British scientists say the potential payoff is massive &#8212; that accelerating vaccine development by even three months could save 100,000s of lives globally.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The British experiment is scheduled to begin in January. Volunteers will be given a laboratory-grown strain of the live virus while quarantined in a secure unit at the Royal Free Hospital in London, where they will undergo daily, even hourly, tests.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The initial phase of the study, involving 50 to 90 healthy young adults, between ages 18 and 30, will seek to determine the minimal amount of virus necessary to cause an active, measurable infection.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Later in the spring, the scientists hope to enlist more volunteers, who will be inoculated with promising vaccines and then exposed to the virus to see how well the vaccines protect them.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Andrew Catchpole, chief science officer for hVIVO, a commercial pharmaceutical company that will recruit the volunteers, manufacture the challenge strain of the virus and conduct the tests, said the human challenge study will be reviewed by a specially convened ethics committee and Britain&#8217;s Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency, its version of America&#8217;s Food and Drug Administration.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Catchpole told The Washington Post it is not yet known which vaccines may be tested. He said possible candidates include those vaccines that have proven themselves in large-scale Phase 3 trials or they may be earlier in their development but potentially more effective.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Hedging its bets, the British government has signed an agreement for 100 million doses of a vaccine being trialed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca, as well as inking deals with Pfizer, Sanofi and Valneva.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The safety data gained from large, Phase 3 trials will still be essential to show the vaccines are ready to be deployed in large populations. But the British government hopes challenge trials will help accelerate the study of vaccines in mid-stages of development.</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Catchpole said the major advantage is &#8220;you get efficacy data so much sooner&#8221; than trials that rely on chance exposure. If there is not much virus circulating in a population, it could take months and tens of thousands of inoculations to prove efficacy.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Challenge experiments have a long history in biomedical research, dating back to Edward Jenner&#8217;s development of a smallpox vaccine in 1796. In the modern era, challenge trials have been used extensively to study and find treatments for influenza, malaria, typhoid, dengue fever and cholera.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Covid-19, though, is different. Without a medication to reliably &#8220;rescue&#8221; volunteers from the disease, many scientists are hesitant to infect people.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Although physicians have more treatments for hospitalized patients than they did at the beginning of the pandemic, there isn&#8217;t yet an approved drug to stop recently infected people from developing a severe case.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The challenge trial participants will be given the antiviral drug remdesivir, which President Trump took when hospitalized for covid-19 and which has been approved or authorized for temporary use to treat covid-19 in more than 50 countries. The World Health Organization, however, recently reported that in large clinical trails in 30 countries, remdesivir had no substantial effect on mortality. That study has not yet been peer-reviewed.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">There&#8217;s also growing evidence that some people develop long-lasting complications from covid-19. Yet there&#8217;s not much known about how to predict who will go on to be a covid &#8220;long-hauler&#8221; or how permanent those symptoms are.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Young people are not immune from that outcome,&#8221; Francis Collins, director of the National Institutes of Health, told The Washington Post last week. &#8220;Is it actually justifiable to intentionally infect anybody &#8212; no matter their current health status? I think that&#8217;s a very open question, ethically.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">If a clinical subject became seriously ill or died in the British challenge trials, the scientists, pharmaceutical companies and the government could be blamed and condemned as reckless. Public support for clinical trials and for new vaccines could also take a hit.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Nonetheless, Alastair Fraser-Urquhart, petition project manager for <a href="https://1daysooner.org/#home-section">1DaySooner</a>, has gathered signatures for more than 38,000 people willing to volunteer.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Why? Altruism, basically,&#8221; he said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Fraser-Urquhart said for healthy young people like himself, &#8220;the risks are low and the potential benefits huge.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Young people don&#8217;t want to be living in world constrained by the pandemic any longer than they must, he said. They also want to help the older generations, which are more suspectible to serious cases of covid-19 &#8212; though there are those who question whether the experience of a healthy 20-something in a challenge trial could really predict how an elderly person with high blood pressure will fare.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Fraser-Urquhart suggested volunteers should be paid for their time &#8212; maybe $5,000 for a few weeks in quarantine and a year&#8217;s worth of follow-up tests.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;There shouldn&#8217;t be any out-of-pocket cost, nor should there be financial incentive,&#8221; he said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">He added that the British government deserves credit &#8220;for going where no one wants to go. Which is to be the first to try.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Peter Openshaw, an immunologist at Imperial College London and co-investigator on human challenge consortium, said, &#8220;deliberately infecting volunteers with a known human pathogen is never undertaken lightly.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But, &#8220;it is really vital that we move as fast as possible toward getting effective vaccines and other treatments for covid-19, and challenge studies have the potential to accelerate and de-risk the development of novel drugs and vaccines.&#8221;</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Dominic Wilkinson, a professor of medical ethics at the University of Oxford, noted that volunteers would be increasing their risk but not starting from zero &#8212; they&#8217;d be exposed to a strain of the virus already circulating widely in Britain, especially among young people.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;What is the risk of trial versus the risk of living in London or going to university?&#8221; he asked.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">With that in mind, he said, the need for human challenge trials is clear.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;You might get a vaccine or you might learn which vaccine is most efficient,&#8221; he said, at a time when thousands are dying around the world every day.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In the United States, the government has been funding researchers at Colorado State University to develop a <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2020/08/14/us-will-prepare-coronavirus-strain-potential-human-challenge-trials/?itid=lk_inline_manual_50">potential challenge strain</a> of the coronavirus that could be used if such experiments become necessary.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Creating a challenge strain takes several months, and with several large U.S. vaccine trials currently projected to reach a decisive milestone that will show whether the vaccines are working by the end of this year or early next year, many scientists said the resource isn&#8217;t likely to be needed.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;My own view is the need for this seems even less likely than it did a few months ago,&#8221; said NIH&#8217;s Collins. &#8220;The idea of needing to prepare for that was to face the possibility the viral pandemic might actually fade away and there wouldn&#8217;t be enough disease spreading in the community.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md italic"><i>Johnson reported from Boulder, Colorado.</i></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p></div>