--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/politics/2020/10/19/TELEMMGLPICT000218726328_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqpVlberWd9EgFPZtcLiMQfy2dmClwgbjjulYfPTELibA.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Can the Red Wall coalition survive the strain of regional lockdown? 
description: > 
  Isn’t this just a case of the evil Tories stitching up the poor north again, as in days of old?It will come much further down the line and will look – if it happens at all – pretty much like most previous breaks have looked.Make no mistake: at some point, Johnson’s coalition will fracture as every previous one has.It may last until beyond the next election or even the one after that.Examining the entrails of the current crisis, however, will shed little light on the immediate future. 
date: 1603128738.4255636 
--- 
<div><p>But what seems to be exciting the commentariat right now is the tension that exists in the apparent paradox of former Labour voters in the Red Wall now being the target of tougher anti-virus restrictions than in the rest of the country. How will voters in Birmingham and Manchester and Newcastle behave when they see compatriots in the sunny, wealthy south enjoying their liberty to an extent that is denied them? Isn&#8217;t this just a case of <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2020/10/09/local-lockdowns-threaten-collapse-tory-support-red-wall/">the evil Tories stitching up the poor north again, as in days of old?</a></p>
<p>That&#8217;s certainly how Labour is trying to paint ministers&#8217; actions. But according to the polling, that is having only limited success &#8211;&#160;so far. Labour&#8217;s attempts to politicise Covid for partisan advantage are also hampered by the fact that according to polling, most voters &#8211; including those in the north &#8211; are supportive of tougher short term measures to see off the virus.</p>
<p>The breaking point between Johnson and his new supporters probably <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/08/21/behind-red-wall-voters-still-love-boris-johnson-government/">won&#8217;t come as a result of closing pubs at 10 o&#8217;clock or denying the kids a visit to their gran&#8217;s</a>. It will come much further down the line and will look &#8211; if it happens at all &#8211; pretty much like most previous breaks have looked. If Brexit goes badly, if we see miles of lorry queues in Kent and experience a shortage of drugs or food items in the shops, or (and) the economic consequences of Covid restrictions result is a drastic fall in tax revenues that can&#8217;t be made up by borrowing&#160;&#8211;&#160;that is when voters will start to shop around for alternative recipients of their votes.&#160;</p>
<p>In the meantime, infuriatingly for the government&#8217;s detractors, Johnson&#8217;s coalition remains in place, most likely because they have decided that, Covid being an unforeseen and unprecedented crisis, ministers are still being given the benefit of the doubt, and confidence in the other lot being able to handle things better is being withheld.</p>
<p>Make no mistake: at some point, Johnson&#8217;s coalition will fracture as every previous one has. As to when that will take place, that is still a known unknown. It may last until beyond the next election or even the one after that. Examining the entrails of the current crisis, however, will shed little light on the immediate future.</p>
</div>