--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://sm.mashable.com/mashable_in/seo/default/canneseries-truth-seekers-review-nick-frost-samson-kayo-make_cs37.jpg 
title: > 
  Canneseries 'Truth Seekers' Review: Nick Frost, Samson Kayo Make For The Cutest Horror-Comedy Duo 
description: > 
  Disclaimer: This review of ‘Truth Seekers’ is based on the first 2 episodes that were screened at the Cannes International Series Festival.However, I am incredibly glad to inform you that that’s not the case with Truth Seekers because I absolutely adored it!Truth Seekers is directed by Jim Field-Smith and written by Nick Frost, Simon Pegg, Nat Saunders, and James Serafinowicz.Truth Seekers feels good and apt for this Halloween season.Who knew that that would be a good combination for a horror-comedy series? 
keywords: > 
  duo, truth, pegg, good, frost, review, episodes, horrorcomedy, seekers, nick, cutest, series, samson, theyre, horror, kayo 
date: 1603310236.5742874 
--- 
<div><p><i>Disclaimer: This review of &#8216;Truth Seekers&#8217; is based on the first 2 episodes that were screened at the Cannes International Series Festival.</i></p>


<p>I love Nick Frost and Simon Pegg not just because of the work they&#8217;ve done with Edgar Wright, but also because they&#8217;re genuinely great actors who love to geek out about their craft (Also because they&#8217;re probably great human beings. I don&#8217;t know about that part because I haven&#8217;t met them). So, I was excited when I first heard that they&#8217;re writing and starring in a horror-comedy series and I have been following all sorts of news and information circling around it. And it looks like things have come full circle since now I am officially reviewing it. But this obsession with a particular IP spawns certain expectations that can make or break your viewing experience even if you love the stars and the work they&#8217;ve done prior to that. However, I am incredibly glad to inform you that that&#8217;s not the case with <i>Truth Seekers</i> because I absolutely adored it!</p>

<p><i>Truth Seekers</i> is directed by Jim Field-Smith and written by Nick Frost, Simon Pegg, Nat Saunders, and James Serafinowicz. The cinematography is by Arthur Mulhern, editing by David Webb and Steve Ackroyd, and the score is by Robin Foster. The cast features Frost, Samson Kayo, Emma D&#8217;Arcy, Pegg, Malcolm McDowell, and Susan Wokoma. The series opens with Emma&#8217;s Astrid waking up in her home after detecting a fire and discovering that her mother is burning in the kitchen. One jarring cut-to-black later, she finds herself in a hospital haunted by a charred ghost and a bunch of ghouls wearing beaked plague masks. Then we meet Frost&#8217;s Gus who works for Pegg&#8217;s Dave and installs and repairs broadband while looking out for supernatural activities. He lives with his father, Richard, and his only &#8220;friend&#8221; is his newly-assigned assistant, Elton (Kayo).</p>

<p class="vplayer"></p>

<p>While <a href="/entertainment/17213/truth-seekers-trailer-nick-frost-is-a-hilarious-ghost-hunter-taking-on-killer-ghosts" target="_blank">watching the trailer</a> for the show, the one thing that I had pointed out is that if you&#8217;re attempting to make your mark in the horror-comedy genre, you have to get them right. The horror has to be on par with the comedy. You can&#8217;t just let a bunch of people roam around ghosts and belch funny lines and call it horror-comedy. Only <i>Bhooter Bhabishyat</i> can do that. That&#8217;s it. So, when the opening scene happened, given how I&#8217;ve been on a massive horror binge-watch, it felt a little timid. Frost&#8217;s introduction scene and his interactions with Elton and Richard were rife with Britain&#8217;s signature dry humour and that entertained me. Simultaneously I was afraid that it&#8217;s going to focus more on the laughs and less on the spooks and that&#8217;s when the second visit to one of Gus&#8217;s customers, Mrs. Connelly happened, and holy f*cking hell did I almost sh*t my pants. From that point onward Field-Smith and the writers deftly switched between the two genres and even made me emotional with one of its World War 2 related sub-plots.</p>

<p>I didn&#8217;t quite know what to expect from Frost and Kayo&#8217;s pairing. It plays on the age-old generation gap trope but the good thing is that they don&#8217;t go ham with it. They both are knowledgeable people and are somewhat unaware of the lingo that either of them uses and their wavelengths are a little off. But they are compatible and the humour comes from Frost and Kayo playing off of each other and when they&#8217;re catching up with each other&#8217;s jokes and references. Malcolm McDowell as Frost&#8217;s father is hilarious and I am hoping that there&#8217;s more of him in the series. And I am guessing Pegg has an extended role but in there isn&#8217;t much of him in the first two episodes. Emma and Susan are promising. Truth Seekers looks brilliant and there are a ton of great visual comedy as well as horror which is done through precise framing and editing and some severe restraint on the sound design and score. One includes <i>Hot Fuzz</i> alum Kevin Eldon as the owner of a spooky hotel and Mrs. Connelly. Don&#8217;t worry, I won&#8217;t reveal which is which.</p>

<h3>Final verdict.</h3>
<p><i>Truth Seekers</i> feels good and apt for this Halloween season. There&#8217;s a sense of old-world charm mixed with a modern sense of fun. The pulpiness that the lingo, the score, and the visuals bring feels relatable while the rustic aesthetic of the town brought to life by the production design emanates nostalgia. I like the fact that Field-Smith and his team aren&#8217;t relying on horror techniques from the 2000s, which is weirdly making a comeback for no good reason. Instead, he&#8217;s focusing on clean cuts, comprehensive frames, and just good acting. Who knew that that would be a good combination for a horror-comedy series? I knew, I knew. I think that the decision to make the episodes approximately 20-is-minutes long is smart because it allows the comedy and the horror to cook perfectly before you move on to the next episode. And, please keep in mind that this is a purely personal opinion, I want Edgar Wright to guest direct one of the episodes in the future of Truth Seekers just so that I can get my Cornetto Trilogy reunion. Is that too much to ask? Yes. Will that stop me from asking it? Absolutely not!</p>

<p><strong>SEE ALSO: <a href="/entertainment/17561/canneseries-moloch-review-a-slow-burn-french-mystery-about-people-spontaneously-catching-fire" target="_blank">Canneseries <i>Moloch</i> Review - A Slow-Burn French Mystery About People Spontaneously Catching Fire</a></strong></p>

<p><i>Cover image courtesy: Canneseries/YouTube</i></p>
  
  </div>