--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8dfcecc21cfb0019468e5b?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  CEO Satya Nadella made $44.3 million in total compensation during Microsoft's last fiscal year, as the board praises his leadership in the pandemic 
description: > 
  Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella made more than $44.3 million in total compensation during the company's last fiscal year.The board members who decide executive compensation called out Microsoft's strong financial performance despite the pandemic.Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella made more than $44.3 million in total compensation during the company's last fiscal year, according to an annual securities filing detailing executive pay.The compensation committee, made up of Microsoft board members who decide executive pay, called out strong financial performance for the company despite the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.The ratio is slightly higher than the company's previous fiscal year, during which Nadella made 249 times more than median employee. 
date: 1603146987.7340078 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li><strong>Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella made more than $44.3 million in total compensation during the company's last fiscal year.</strong></li>
<li><strong>The board members who decide executive compensation <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-q4-fiscal-year-earnings-satya-nadella-2020-7">called out Microsoft's strong financial performance despite the pandemic.</a></strong></li>
<li><strong>"Under Mr. Nadella's leadership, Microsoft acted early to enable secure, remote work and adopt other measures to protect the health and well-being of our workforce, while ensuring the continuity of our operations for the many organizations that rely on Microsoft products and services to serve their customers or citizens," <a href="https://microsoft.gcs-web.com/node/28691/html#toc31295_10">the compensation filing states</a>.</strong></li>
<li><strong>A</strong><strong>re you a Microsoft employee? Contact this reporter via the encrypted messaging app Signal (+1-425-344-</strong><strong>8242) or email (astewart@businessinsider.com).</strong></li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Microsoft CEO Satya Nadella made more than $44.3 million in total compensation during the company's last fiscal year, according to an annual securities filing detailing executive pay.</p><p>Nadella's compensation, <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-ceo-satya-nadella-fy19-pay-2019-10#:~:text=Microsoft%20CEO%20Satya%20Nadella%20made%20%2442.9%20million%20in%20FY19%20%2D%20Business%20Insider&amp;text=The%20word%20%22Insider%22.&amp;text=A%20leading%2Dedge%20research%20firm%20focused%20on%20digital%20transformation.&amp;text=Terms%20of%20Service%20%2C%20Privacy%20Policy%20and%20Cookies%20Policy.">up a little more than 3% from around $42.9 million last year</a>, included $2.5 million in salary, more than $30.7 million in stock awards and nearly $11 million in incentives. The compensation committee, made up of Microsoft board members who decide executive pay, called out strong financial performance for the company despite the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic.</p><p>"Under Mr. Nadella's leadership, Microsoft acted early to enable secure, remote work and adopt other measures to protect the health and well-being of our workforce, while ensuring the continuity of our operations for the many organizations that rely on Microsoft products and services to serve their customers or citizens," <a href="https://microsoft.gcs-web.com/node/28691/html#toc31295_10">the filing states</a>.</p><p>The compensation committee evaluates Nadella's performance based on three, equally weighted factors: product and strategy, customers and stakeholders, and culture and organizational leadership. The board gave Nadella the strongest marks on culture and organizational leadership, and scored his overall performance based on the three categories as 146.66% out of a possible 200%.</p><p>The filing also gives a window into the product areas Microsoft's board deemed most important. The board awards performance-based stock awards based on weighted factors. At the top of the list was growing commercial cloud revenue to $51.09 billion, which accounted for 35 percent of the goal, followed by growing commercial cloud subscribers by 23.02% (34% of goal), growing Teams chat app monthly active users by 246.94% (10% of goal), plus growing Xbox Game Pass subscribers (7%), Surface revenue (7%), and LinkedIn Sessions (7%).</p><p>Microsoft paid chief financial officer Amy Hood more than $19.6 million, president and chief legal officer Brad Smith more than $16.6 million, and global sales, marketing and operations executive vice president Jean-Philippe Courtois nearly $14 million. Microsoft paid former executive vice president of business development Peggy Johnson more than $9.5 million during the fiscal year before she left to become CEO of Magic Leap.</p><p>Nadella made 257 times more than the company's median employee, which it said made $172,142. The ratio is slightly higher than the company's previous fiscal year, during which Nadella made 249 times more than median employee.</p><p>A Microsoft investor last year <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-investor-asked-board-justify-satya-nadella-salary-2019-12">asked the company to justify that pay gap, and chairman John Thompson pointed to</a> Microsoft's growing market cap and a cultural change he said Nadella has led within the company.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p><strong>Got a tip?</strong>&#160;Contact reporter Ashley Stewart via encrypted messaging app Signal (+1-425-344-8242) or email (astewart@businessinsider.com).</p>
                  </div>