--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f9078e6212113001873ff5f?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  CEO of animal vaccine company Zoetis says the pet care industry is growing because we need our pets more than ever 
description: > 
  Kristen Peck, the CEO of animal vaccine and medication company Zoetis, told Business Insider that the closer we are to our pets, the more their healthcare impacts our own wellness.Zoetis has developed diagnostic tests that deliver results before the end of a vet visit to improve the animal care experience for vets and owners.And as they continue to play a bigger role in our lives, the petcare industry is also growing alongside it.Part of that is revolutionizing the vet visit experience as well.Yet the increased popularity of pets isn't just about cute animal content giving us warm and fuzzy feelings, it's also backed by science. 
keywords: > 
  vet, animal, vaccine, need, peck, pet, visit, company, growing, pets, impacts, zoetis, billion, healthcare, care, ceo, industry 
date: 1603354865.7352228 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Over the last 30 years, pets have moved from living in our backyards to sleeping in our bedrooms with us.</li>
<li>Kristen Peck, the CEO of animal vaccine and medication company Zoetis, told Business Insider that the closer we are to our pets, the more their healthcare impacts our own wellness.</li>
<li>Spending on pets in the US grew by more than $5 billion from 2018 to 2019, and in 2020 increased pet adoption has been a major outcome of the pandemic.</li>
<li>Zoetis has developed diagnostic tests that deliver results before the end of a vet visit to improve the animal care experience for vets and owners.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-retail-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-retail-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Thirty years ago, a dog owner throwing their pup a birthday party would have seemed odd. But today, there are entire bakeries dedicated to making dog-friendly cakes, cookies, and other confection for the best boys and girls.</p><p>Americans are loving their pets more than ever. And as they continue to play a bigger role in our lives, the petcare industry is also growing alongside it.</p><p>Kristen Peck, the CEO of animal vaccine and medication company Zoetis, explained at the <a href="https://trendsfestival.com/">Business Insider Global Trends Festival</a>, that the importance of our pets today is part of an evolution that's taken place over the last three decades.</p><p>"Maybe 30 years ago, pets were in someone's backyard," Peck said. "Then they came into the house. And I'd say five-to-10 years ago they ended up on your bed. Why does that matter? The closer they get to you, the more you invest in their healthcare, and the more their health impacts you."</p><p>Because pets have become true family members, humans are willing to spend more on their healthcare. Zoetis has developed new products that meet the concerns of pet owners, including vaccines and medicine. Peck says the company is also expanding into the diagnostics space and wants to be able to provide solutions for the "continuum of care."</p><p>"When a dog comes in for a wellness visit, you want to be able to detect early signs of potential disease using diagnostics," Peck said. "People also want to prevent, which relates to both vaccines as well as parasiticides."</p><p>Part of that is revolutionizing the vet visit experience as well. In September, Zoetis <a href="https://www.zoetisus.com/news-and-media/zoetis-launches-vetscan-imagyst-a-new-diagnostic-platform-to-detect-intestinal-parasites-in-pets-at-the-time-of-visit.aspx">launched a new diagnostic product</a> that uses AI to detect parasites in fecal samples, delivering results during visits. This is particularly helpful in the age of socially-distanced vet visits because appointments are more complicated for vet facilities to organize and schedule.&#160;</p><p>According to the <a href="https://www.americanpetproducts.org/press_industrytrends.asp">American Pet Products Association</a>, consumers spent an estimated $95.7 billion on their pets in 2019, up from $90.5 billion in 2018. That's more than $5 billion of growth in one year, and 2020 is shaping up to follow that trend as a result of the pandemic. More people are looking for companionship at home and more flexible lifestyles have enabled them to go from scrolling adoption pages to actually applying.&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-retail-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-retail-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"The need for companionship has never been more important," Peck said. "The sort of unconditional love and support you get from pets at home."</p><p>Shelters are running out of pets looking for homes, Peck added. Yet the increased popularity of pets isn't just about cute animal content giving us warm and fuzzy feelings, it's also backed by science. "There's a lot more science about the benefits of the human/animal bond, how it actually really helps the health of humans."</p><p>Peck cited lifestyle changes that pets encourage, like walking regularly, as well as emotional impacts, like treatment for PTSD, as a few health benefits that dogs offer. She also said that the general impact of a pet is beneficial to anyone, especially during a pandemic when social connections are harder to come by and stress is high.&#160;</p>
                  </div>