--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8874f9d2607800193419a3?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Cisco wants Webex to be as 'cool' as Zoom, and poached this top executive from Box to lead the way: 'Coolness is a reflection of how delightful the experience is' 
description: > 
  Cisco poached Jeetu Patel from Box in August to lead the tech giant's applications business, including its Webex videoconferencing platform."Coolness is a reflection of how delightful the experience is," Patel told Business Insider.That's what Jeetu Patel, whom Cisco poached from Box in August to lead its Webex team, hopes to change.Just weeks after he joined the company, Cisco acquired startup BabbleLabs, which uses AI to remove unwanted background noise in digital communications platforms.Got a tip about Cisco, Zoom, or another tech company? 
date: 1603173661.5938919 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Cisco poached Jeetu Patel from Box in August to lead the tech giant's applications business, including its Webex videoconferencing platform.</li>
<li>Launched in 1995, Webex is a widely used platform in the enterprise, recently reporting 500 million meeting participants monthly, a threefold jump from a year ago.</li>
<li>Webex is not as popular as relative upstart Zoom, which became the star videoconferencing technology in the coronavirus crisis when millions were forced to work remotely. (In an ironic twist, Zoom CEO Eric Yuan was actually an early Webex executive.)</li>
<li>But Patel, who was Box's chief strategy officer and is now a Cisco senior vice president, said his goal is to introduce more innovations to the Webex platform, including an upcoming feature that would reduce unwanted background noise.</li>
<li>
<p>"Coolness is a reflection of how delightful the experience is," Patel told Business Insider.</p>
</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>The pandemic, which forced millions to work and study from home, turned Zoom, the wildly successful video conferencing platform, into a household name &#8212; and a tech titan in its own right, now valued at almost $159 billion.</p><p>Cisco's Webex also saw a spike in traffic during the crisis, but the 25-year-old platform is grappling with the view that it's the stodgy, uncool alternative to its hip young rival. That's what Jeetu Patel, whom Cisco poached from Box in August to lead its Webex team, hopes to change.</p><p>Patel, who was Box's chief product officer and chief strategy officer who is now Cisco's senior vice president for applications, said his game plan for making Webex cool is pretty straightforward: "To build a product that people love so much that they're willing to talk about it to their friends and family."</p><p>"Coolness is a reflection of how delightful the experience is," he told Business Insider.</p><p>Patel said he was initially reluctant to join Cisco. "I had gotten a call from [Cisco CEO Chuck Robbins], saying, 'Hey, we are looking for someone who can help us more to a SaaS (software-as-a-service) based business model," he said.&#160;</p><p>Like other traditional enterprise tech companies, Cisco, which is dominant in the networking market, has been adapting to the rise of the enterprise cloud. "I know nothing about the networking side of the house," he said. "That's not my expertise, and so I'm probably the wrong guy."</p><p>But Patel was drawn to Cisco's heightened focus on cloud software applications, including in the fast growing market for video conferencing and collaboration tools.</p><p>"We're in our first inning of the kinds of things that you could do to make this a meaningfully more productive way to go out and reimagine how work can be done," he said. "That was what got me excited."</p>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<h2>Cisco's strategy is to make sure that Webex delivers 'innovation on a regular basis'</h2><p>Webex will be Patel's key focus. Launched in 1995, it emerged as one of the leading enterprise video conferencing platforms during the dot-com boom. Cisco acquired the company in 2007.&#160;</p><p>Like other platforms, led by Zoom, Webex saw a surge in demand as a result of the sharp pivot to remote work, recently recording half a billion meeting participants a month, a threefold year-over-year jump.</p><p>Here's an ironic twist: <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/meet-zoom-billionaire-eric-yuan-career-net-worth-life#yuan-has-worked-in-teleconferencing-since-he-arrived-in-the-united-states-2">Zoom founder and CEO Eric Yuan,</a> actually served as vice president of engineering at Webex and played a pivotal role in its early development. He stayed in the same a role when Cisco acquired the company before leaving in 2011 to launch Zoom.</p><p>Now, it's Zoom that quickly became the star videoconferencing tool, with 300 million meeting participants (different from daily active users, which <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/zoom-blog-post-daily-active-users-meeting-participants-2020-4?utm_source=feedburner&amp;utm_medium=feed&amp;utm_campaign=Feed%3A+typepad%2Falleyinsider%2Fsilicon_alley_insider+%28Silicon+Alley+Insider%29">the company has not recently shared</a>) daily.&#160;This week, the company introduced a new feature <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/zoom-announces-new-online-event-platform-onzoom-third-party-apps-2020-10">called OnZoom</a> for hosting online events, both free and paid.&#160;</p><p>In terms of the competition, Patel stressed that innovation will be key to Webex's success and growth, saying you need to "make sure that you surprise people with capabilities and&#8230;innovation on a regular basis."</p><h2>A key startup acquisition hints at the strategy to come</h2><p>That's precisely what Patel focused on when he joined Cisco. Just weeks after he joined the company, Cisco acquired startup BabbleLabs, which uses AI to remove unwanted background noise in digital communications platforms.</p><p>Cisco was about to pass up the opportunity, but Patel convinced the company to make the deal just as he was assuming his new role. "We were able to get it done within a very short amount of time," he said.</p><p>Patel said the new technology will help fix a common problem faced by people while on video calls: noise.&#160; He himself has struggled with this while working from home where a neighbor's landscaping activities sometimes interferes with his work, he said.&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"I'm in a board meeting, in the middle of a presentation and the guy's mowing his lawn," Patel said. "It just comes across as very unprofessional."</p><p>That will be less of a problem in a few weeks when Webex unveils the noise removal feature on the platform.&#160;</p><p>"If you have a vacuum cleaner going in the background," Patel said, "a dishwasher that's running, someone's mowing the lawn, kids are screaming, or you're eating a bag of chips and there's a crumbling sound, it can suppress all of those sounds, and amplify your sound regardless of what language is speaking."</p><p>Patel said his team will be unveiling other big announcements in a couple of months at the upcoming WebexOne event in December. It includes a new marketing push, though Patel would not say if it would include the return of RuPaul, the drag queen featured in a famous <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gUmT7Ws6l1k">2000 Webex commercial</a>.</p><p>"Stay tuned," he said. "We have some really fun, exciting announcements, we're going to make."</p><p>Got a tip about Cisco, Zoom, or another tech company? Contact this reporter via email at bpimentel@businessinsider.com, message him on Twitter <a href="https://twitter.com/benpimentel">@benpimentel</a> or send him a secure message through Signal at (510) 731-8429. You can also <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-tip-business-insider-securely-guide-signal-securedrop-2017-6">contact Business Insider securely via SecureDrop</a>.</p>
                  </div>