--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/10/img_20171010_175600.jpg?w=533 
title: > 
  Cloud Foundry coalesces around Kubernetes – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  In a normal year, the Cloud Foundry project would be hosting its annual European Summit in Dublin this week.With Cloud Foundry executive director Abby Kearns leaving earlier this year, the organizations’ former CTO Chip Childers stepped into the role.Maybe just as importantly, though, the project’s move to Kubernetes as its container orchestration tool of choice — and a renewed focus on the Cloud Foundry developer experience — is now starting to bear fruit.It’s to go take the Cloud Foundry developer experience and get that thing re-platformed onto Kubernetes .Traditionally, getting up and running with Cloud Foundry was a heavy lift — and something that most companies left to third-party vendors to handle. 
keywords: > 
  projects, kubernetes, childers, foundry, developer, today, project, experience, community, cloud, coalesces, techcrunch 
date: 1603230016.1468234 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary">In a normal year, the Cloud Foundry project would be hosting its annual European Summit in Dublin this week. But this is 2020, so it&#8217;s a virtual event. This year, however, has been a bit of a transformative year for the open-source Platform-as-a-Service project &#8212; in more ways than one. With Cloud Foundry executive director <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/person/abby-kearns" target="_blank">Abby Kearns </a> leaving earlier this year, the organizations&#8217; former CTO Chip Childers stepped into the role. Maybe just as importantly, though, the project&#8217;s move to Kubernetes as its container orchestration tool of choice &#8212; and a renewed focus on the Cloud Foundry developer experience &#8212; is now starting to bear fruit.</p>
<p>&#8220;In April, I took over the job. I said: &#8216;Listen, our community has a new North Star. It&#8217;s to go take the Cloud Foundry developer experience and get that thing re-platformed onto <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/kubernetes" target="_blank">Kubernetes </a>. No more delay, no more diversity of thought here. It&#8217;s time to make the move,&#8217; &#8221; Childers said (with a chuckle). &#8220;And here we are. It&#8217;s October, we have our ecosystem aligned, we have major project releases that are fulfilling that vision. And we&#8217;ve got a community that&#8217;s very energized around it continuing the work of progressing this integration with a bunch of cloud-native projects.&#8221;</p>
<p>Developers who use Cloud Foundry, Childers argued, love it, but the project now has an opportunity to show a wider range of potential use that it can offer a smoother developer experience on top of virtually any Kubernetes cluster.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>One of the projects that is working on making this happen &#8212; and which hit its 1.0 release today, is <a href="https://www.cloudfoundry.org/blog/cloud-foundry-becomes-more-kubernetes-native-with-cf-for-k8s/">cf-for-k8s</a>. Traditionally, getting up and running with Cloud Foundry was a heavy lift &#8212; and something that most companies left to third-party vendors to handle. This new project, which launched in April, allows developers to spin up a relatively light-weight Cloud Foundry distribution on top of a Kubernetes cluster &#8212; using projects like Istio and Fluentd, in addition to Kubernetes &#8212; and to do so within minutes.</p>
<p>&#8220;It comes along with the whole process of reimagining our architecture to pull in other projects a lot more aggressively and allows us to get to feature parity [with the classic VM-focused Cloud Foundry experience] using a lot more complementary open-source projects,&#8221; Childers said about the larger role of this project in the overall ecosystem. &#8220;That lets our community focus less on building the underlying plumbing and [spend] more time thinking about how to speed up innovation and the developer experience.&#8221;</p>
<p>This wouldn&#8217;t be open source if there wasn&#8217;t another project that does something quite similar &#8212; at least at first glance. That&#8217;s <a href="https://www.cloudfoundry.org/blog/cloud-foundry-foundation-announces-kubecf-is-new-incubating-project/">KubeCF</a>, which hit its 2.5 launch today. This is an open-source distribution of the <a href="https://www.cloudfoundry.org/projects/#application_runtime_pmc">Cloud Foundry Application Runtime</a> that, as Childers explained, is meant for production use and that was originally meant to provide existing users a bridge onto the Kubernetes bandwagon. Over time, these two projects will likely merge. &#8220;Everyone&#8217;s collaborating on what this shared vision looks like. They&#8217;re just, they&#8217;re just two different distributions that handle the different use cases today,&#8221; Childers explained.</p>
<p>After six months in his new position, Childers noted that he&#8217;s seeing a lot of energy in the community right now. The job is hard, he said, when there&#8217;s unhealthy disagreement, but right now, what he&#8217;s seeing is &#8220;a beautiful harmony of agreement.&#8221;</p>
</div>