--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://ca-times.brightspotcdn.com/dims4/default/9ab80d7/2147483647/strip/true/crop/4896x2570+0+122/resize/1200x630!/quality/90/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcalifornia-times-brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com%2F31%2Fdd%2F8fccdc73412888cbe50758164a74%2Fjeffrey-toobin-supreme-court-health-care.JPEG 
title: > 
  Column: Jeffrey Toobin’s alleged indecent Zoom exposure shows some men have learned nothing from #MeToo 
description: > 
  Simpson, whose murder trial arguably launched Toobin’s career, could not resist indulging in a moment of schadenfreude: “Damn @Jeffrey Toobin,” he tweeted.In my personal life, I have found that Zoom calls can create a deeper sense of connection than in-person meetings.AdvertisementMost glaringly, that you should always keep your hands in view during a Zoom call with colleagues.Second, that some men have learned nothing from the #MeToo movement, even apparently a man such as Toobin, who has written and commented extensively on workplace harassment.AdvertisementSo what will become of Jeffrey Toobin? 
keywords: > 
  jeffrey, exposure, toobins, toobin, column, moment, yorker, male, couple, zoom, indecent, man, learned, men, colleagues, friends, shows, metoo 
date: 1603239133.7175212 
--- 
<div><p>Oh dear. It may have finally happened. A famous man on a Zoom call allegedly &#8220;<a class="link" href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WzU6_3GqbFo&amp;feature=emb_logo" target="_blank">took it out</a><i>,&#8221; </i>as Julia Louis-Dreyfus&#8217; character Elaine once put it so succinctly on &#8220;Seinfeld.&#8221;</p><p>According to Vice, which <a class="link" href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/epdgm4/new-yorker-suspends-jeffrey-toobin-for-zoom-dick-incident" target="_blank">broke the story</a>, Jeffrey Toobin was apparently engaged in an act of self-touching as his colleagues looked on, one imagines, in horror.</p><p>What was Toobin thinking?</p><p>The 60-year-old New Yorker writer and CNN legal analyst apologized to his family, friends and colleagues for reportedly being caught with his pants down during a Zoom call about potential election outcomes with other New Yorker luminaries, including Jane Mayer, Evan Osnos and Jelani Cobb.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-ad07e33ef6-464e-4ce5-b89a-6e02aecb40ec" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p>Toobin said he erroneously believed that he had &#8220;muted&#8221; the Zoom video.</p><p>I guess I believe him. I mean, no one in his right mind would do such a thing on camera during a work meeting. Everyone knows you only do that with the camera <i>off.</i></p><p>Kidding.</p><p>No one should do at work what Toobin has seemingly apologized for <i>ever</i>. It is disrespectful in the extreme, dangerous and has about it the whiff of wanton self-destruction.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-adac54113f-9957-4ef9-9ad5-3413032b1a9f" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p></p><p id="nativo_1"></p><p>It was, in any case, a moment made for Twitter.</p><p>Even the vile O.J. Simpson, whose murder trial arguably launched Toobin&#8217;s career, could not resist indulging in a moment of schadenfreude: &#8220;Damn @Jeffrey Toobin,&#8221; <a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/TheRealOJ32/status/1318348497272238080?s=20" target="_blank">he tweeted.</a> This from a man who was found civilly responsible for one of the more despicable acts in our lifetime.</p><p>Had Toobin exposed himself at the office in a meeting with colleagues, he almost certainly would have lost his job and perhaps even faced legal repercussions. </p><p>As it stands, social media is ablaze with a new hashtag #MeToobin, and a serious discussion about whether what Vice said Toobin did can rightfully be considered sexual harassment.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-ad7ab717a9-4d0c-4fe2-b05a-227af43ddcba" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p>&#8220;I would say that a Zoom call from home is considered the workplace,&#8221; said Leslie Levy, an Oakland employment discrimination attorney. &#8220;I think his colleagues probably could make a complaint of sexual harassment against the employer. It&#8217;s definitely indecent exposure, though it may not amount to a criminal act.&#8221;</p><p>And maybe he will face professional repercussions other than an announced suspension at the New Yorker pending an investigation and time off at CNN <a class="link" href="https://www.cnn.com/2020/10/19/media/jeffrey-toobin-suspended/index.html" target="_blank">&#8220;while he deals with a personal issue.</a>&#8221; </p><p>::</p><p>The age of COVID has changed our working lives in ways large and small, but perhaps the one constant among white-collar professionals is that we no longer take meetings in person.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-adb55b45c9-e348-4e06-ba7b-78e720c3e1ee" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p>Instead, we gather in the electronic conference room, our heads stacked in little squares like an aging, less attractive Brady Bunch. Some of us, already comfortable at home, get a little too comfortable and forget, as Toobin may have, that while he was sitting at home, he was also sitting at work.</p><p>Zoom call etiquette would seem to be a fairly benign evolution of conference call etiquette, which some of us had trouble mastering. Who among us has not rinsed a dish or flushed a toilet while forgetting to put the phone on mute?</p><p>In my personal life, I have found that Zoom calls can create a deeper sense of connection than in-person meetings. For months, I hoisted a glass or two during a weekly Zoom cocktail party with three chatty friends that was remarkably free of cross talk. At a Zoom baby shower for my cousin, guests introduced themselves one by one and offered advice to the parents-to-be that ranged from practical to silly. (&#8220;If you and your baby have a fight,&#8221; my comedian daughter offered, &#8220;don&#8217;t go to bed angry.&#8221;)</p><p>A couple of weeks ago, I watched a young couple take their marriage vows online. I know they were disappointed not to be able to celebrate with their friends and families in person, but I can&#8217;t tell you what a relief it was not to have to get dressed up, put on makeup and wear heels. I threw a strand of pearls on over my T-shirt, put some lipstick on and that was it. At the &#8220;reception,&#8221; each guest had a few minutes in the spotlight, to offer the couple best wishes. I felt I&#8217;d gotten to meet everyone at the wedding, something that almost never happens IRL. Plus, no one got drunk and sloppy.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-ad33d1a065-8d35-43df-a320-affce3e2dc6e" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p>And then, on Sept. 21, in the most dramatic moment of my life, my father took his last breath during a Zoom call with my sister and our children. I sat next to him, as he lay in a hospital bed, holding my laptop so they could say goodbye to him from San Francisco, New Haven and Baja California.</p><p>It was an exquisitely wrenching moment.</p><p>::</p><p>There is certainly a lesson to be learned from what happened to Toobin.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-ad57883d09-2f10-48f1-ac86-dfbdc8ec34bf" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p>Most glaringly, that you should always keep your hands in view during a Zoom call with colleagues.</p><p>Second, that some men have learned nothing from the #MeToo movement, even apparently a man such as Toobin, who has written and commented extensively on workplace harassment.</p><p>And third, that some people will always be willing to minimize bad male behavior: &#8220;Not sure someone getting caught doing something almost everyone does should be a national story,&#8221; wrote a male reporter for Vox, in a tweet that has since been removed. (But seriously, does &#8220;almost everyone&#8221; masturbate on Zoom calls?)</p><p>Another male writer tweeted that the reaction to Toobin&#8217;s situation should be &#8220;empathy, politeness &amp; forgiveness &#8230; rather than punitive mockery.&#8221; Oh come on now. Maybe we&#8217;d feel that way if the offender was an adolescent boy. But a 60-year-old man? </p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-adbc784ef4-956b-4c51-8b15-dde2db1a1d25" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p>So what will become of Jeffrey Toobin?</p><p>My guess is he will take himself off to some sort of treatment for compulsive behavior, resurface after the election and live to Zoom another day.</p><p><i><a class="link" href="https://twitter.com/AbcarianLAT" target="_blank">@AbcarianLAT</a></i></p></div>