--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://img.huffingtonpost.com/asset/5f910ad8290000b408c6a6eb.jpeg?cache=4wjieaydos&ops=1778_1000 
title: > 
  Coronavirus Live Updates: CDC Expands Definition Of ‘Close Contact’ 
description: > 
  CDC Expands Definition Of ‘Close Contact,’ Emphasizing Importance Of Wearing Masks — 10/21/20, 4:00 p.m.— Sara BoboltzSpain Tops 1 Million COVID-19 Cases, A First In Western Europe — 10/21/20, 2:30 p.m.ETOn Wednesday, Spain became the first country in western Europe to report more than 1 million COVID-19 cases, as countries around the world battle a second wave of coronavirus cases.ETWorldwide coronavirus cases topped 40 million on Monday as the pace of infection picked up with the onset of winter, taking just 32 days to go from 30 million to 40 million cases.It took three months to reach 10 million cases from when the first cases were reported in early January. 
keywords: > 
  covid19, live, disease, cases, expands, coronavirus, contact, trump, health, updates, close, million, study, cdc, deaths, definition, vaccine 
date: 1603350820.4724183 
--- 
<div><p><strong>Read the latest updates below. </strong>(To see the latest updates, you may need to refresh the page. All times are Eastern. For earlier updates on the pandemic, <a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/coronavirus-updates-trump-white-house-event-positive_n_5f86f1c8c5b6c5eccffc5a5b" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">go here</a>.)</p>
<p><strong><a href="#update20201021-1600" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">CDC Expands Definition Of &#8216;Close Contact,&#8217; Emphasizing Importance Of Wearing Masks &#8212; 10/21/20, 4:00 p.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has expanded its definition of who constitutes a &#8220;close contact&#8221; of someone confirmed to have COVID-19, <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/2020/10/21/coronavirus-close-contact-cdc/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">The Washington Post</a> first reported Wednesday. CDC Director Robert Redfield confirmed the change at a subsequent press conference.</p>
<p>The agency had previously defined a &#8220;close contact&#8221; as someone who had spent at least 15 consecutive minutes within 6 feet of someone with the coronavirus. Now, it defines close contact as someone who has spent at least 15 minutes within 6 feet of someone with the coronavirus within a 24-hour period.</p>
<p>The change, which emphasizes the importance of wearing face masks, is based on a new report describing how a prison guard contracted the virus after coming into brief contact with inmates several times throughout his shift.&#160;The new definition will likely affect the way schools, offices and other enclosed group settings deal with positive cases.</p>
<p>&#8212; Sara Boboltz</p>
<p><strong><a href="#Update20201021-230">Spain Tops 1 Million COVID-19 Cases, A First In Western Europe &#8212; 10/21/20, 2:30 p.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>On Wednesday, Spain became the first country in western Europe to report more than 1 million COVID-19 cases, as countries around the world battle a second wave of coronavirus cases.</p>
<p>The country&#8217;s health minister said it has now counted 1,005,295 cases since the start of the pandemic. This follows 16,973 new cases over the last 24 hours.</p>
<p>The grim development comes as the country mulls imposing tighter restrictions to prevent a second lockdown.</p>
<p>&#8220;I want to be very clear,&#8221; Spain&#8217;s Health Minister Salvador Illa said Tuesday. &#8220;Some very hard weeks are coming.&#8221;</p>
<p>Illa said he plans to meet with regional heads of health on Thursday to discuss strategies to combat the virus.</p>
<p>&#8212; Nina Golgowski</p>
<p><strong><a href="#update20201021-0700">Pandemic Is Likely Responsible For Many More Deaths Than Reported: CDC Study &#8212; 10/21/20, 7 a.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>The coronavirus pandemic is likely responsible for nearly 300,000 excess deaths in the U.S., according to&#160;<a href="https://www.cdc.gov/mmwr/volumes/69/wr/mm6942e2.htm?s_cid=mm6942e2_w" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">an early release</a>&#160;of a Centers for Disease Control and Prevention study Tuesday. The toll is significantly higher than the 221, 083 officially recorded deaths.</p>
<p>&#8220;Excess deaths&#8221; are the total number of deaths that occur beyond the average of a typical year. The study says that about 66% of the excess deaths can be directly attributable to COVID-19. The rest might be of people who were unable or scared to access hospital care for heart attacks, diabetes, strokes and Alzheimer&#8217;s disease,&#160;<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/health/coronavirus-excess-deaths/2020/10/20/1e1d77c6-12e1-11eb-ba42-ec6a580836ed_story.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">according</a>&#160;to the Washington Post.</p>
<p>The study found that the pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on Black and Latino people, as other research has found. But this study also surprisingly found that the largest percentage increase in excess deaths was among the 25-44 age group, complicating the perception that younger people have an easier time with the virus.</p>
<p>&#8212;&#160;Liza&#160;Hearon</p>
<p><strong><a href="#update20201020-1310">Melania Trump Cancels Rally Appearance Due To &#8216;Lingering Cough&#8217; &#8213; 10/20/2020, 1:10 p.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>First lady Melania Trump won&#8217;t join President Donald Trump for a rally in Erie, Pennsylvania, on Tuesday night because she continues to have coronavirus symptoms.</p>
<p>&#8220;Mrs. Trump continues to feel better every day following her recovery from COVID-19, but with a lingering cough, and out of an abundance of caution, she will not be traveling today,&#8221; spokesperson Stephanie Grisham <a href="https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/2020-election/live-blog/election-live-updates-trump-biden-presidential-campaigns-final-push-n1243927/ncrd1244021#liveBlogHeader" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">told NBC News in a statement</a>.</p>
<p><a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/donald-trump-tests-positive-coronavirus_n_5eb5d776c5b69c4b317a5ee5" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Both Trumps contracted the coronavirus</a> earlier this month. Tuesday&#8217;s rally appearance would have been Melania Trump&#8217;s first in over a year, according to NBC News.</p>
<p>&#8212; Sebastian Murdock</p>
<p><strong><a href="#Update20201020-910">Trump Says U.S. &#8216;Will Never Shut Down&#8217; &#8212; 10/20/20, 9:10 a.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>Asked how the U.S. would handle rising COVID-19 cases and a potential second wave in the winter, Trump insisted he would not impose a full shutdown, and again tried to downplay the severity of the pandemic.</p>
<p>&#8220;We&#8217;re doing much better, and we will never shut down,&#8221; he said on &#8220;Fox &amp; Friends,&#8221; making one of his frequent call-in appearances.</p>
<p>Trump falsely claimed the U.S. is &#8220;doing much better than Europe.&#8221; Many countries in Europe are currently experiencing spikes in cases, and leaders have responded by re-imposing local and regional restrictions. But unlike the U.S., Europe was largely successful in containing the virus over the summer.</p>
<p>Trump, who was hospitalized for COVID-19 less than three weeks ago, again claimed he &#8220;felt like Superman a day later.&#8221;</p>
<p>&#8220;I got better very fast, very, very fast,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p>He also claimed a vaccine would be available &#8220;very soon.&#8221;</p>
<p>Researchers have warned that even if a vaccine were to be developed by the end of the year, it would take several more months and possibly into late next year for health officials to be able to widely distribute it.</p>
<p>More than 220,000 Americans have died from COVID-19.</p>
<p>&#8212; Marina Fang</p>
<p><strong><a href="#update20201020-0715">UK Government Backs Studies To Deliberately Infect Test Subjects With COVID-19 &#8212; 10/20/20, 7:15 a.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>Volunteers could be deliberately exposed to the coronavirus in a controlled setting from January in studies designed to speed up vaccine development,&#160;<a href="https://uk.news.yahoo.com/vaccine-race-test-subjects-could-070842880.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">UK officials confirmed</a>.</p>
<p>In the &#8220;human challenge&#8221; studies, about 90 young, healthy participants will receive a vaccine and then be exposed to COVID-19. They will be carefully monitored in a controlled setting to assess how the vaccine works and if there any side effects.</p>
<p>The UK government announced that it is investing &#163;33.6 million ($43.5 million) in partnership with Imperial College London, hVIVO and the Royal Free London NHS Foundation Trust.</p>
<p>Lead researcher on the human challenge study Dr. Chris Chiu, from Imperial College London, said: &#8220;Our number one priority is the safety of the volunteers. No study is completely risk-free, but the Human Challenge Programme partners will be working hard to ensure we make the risks as low as we possibly can.&#8221;</p>
<p>&#8212;&#160;Liza&#160;Hearon</p>
<p><strong><a href="#update20201019-1543" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">California Will Evaluate FDA-Approved Vaccines Before Distributing Them &#8212; 10/19/20, 3:43 p.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>California Gov. Gavin Newsom (D) announced Monday that a team of public health experts will &#8220;independently review the safety and efficacy of any vaccine that receives FDA approval for distribution&#8221; before it&#8217;s given out to Californians.</p>
<p>&#8220;Of course we don&#8217;t take anyone&#8217;s word for it,&#8221; Newsom said of a federally approved vaccine at a press conference.</p>
<p>That panel of experts will ensure that the first doses of an approved vaccine go to health care workers, first responders and other high-risk groups. It will also come up with a strategy to further distribute vaccines throughout next year.</p>
<p>&#8212; Lydia O&#8217;Connor</p>
<p><strong><a href="#update20201019-1100" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Biden Tests Negative For COVID-19 &#8212; 10/19/20, 11:00 a.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden tested negative for the coronavirus on Monday, according to his campaign.</p>
<p>&#8220;Vice President Biden underwent PCR testing for COVID-19 today and COVID-19 was not detected,&#8221; the campaign said in a statement.</p>
<p>Two people who regularly travel with Democratic vice presidential nominee Sen.&#160;Kamala Harris&#160;(D-Calif.) tested positive last week, forcing the temporary cancelation of in-person campaign events.</p>
<p>She&#8217;s set to resume campaigning this week after all of the COVID-19 tests she took last week came back negative.</p>
<p>&#8212; Ryan Grenoble</p>
<p><strong><a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/coronavirus-updates-trump-white-house-event-positive_n_5f86f1c8c5b6c5eccffc5a5b#update20201019-0925" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Infighting, Exhaustion Deadlocks Trump&#8217;s Coronavirus Task Force, New Report Details &#8212; 10/19/20, 9:25 a.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>Infighting within the White House&#8217;s coronavirus task force has reportedly left its members deadlocked on the appropriate pandemic response, even as COVID-19 cases in the United States are expected to surge in the coming weeks with seemingly no end in sight.</p>
<p>A report in The Washington Post on Monday details exhaustive feuds and stalemates among President Donald Trump&#8217;s health advisers, based on interviews with 41 administration officials, Trump advisers, public health leaders and others with knowledge of the internal government deliberations.</p>
<p>In addition to disagreements on mask-wearing, testing and vaccines, Scott Atlas &#8212; a radiologist who joined the task force in August after his <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trump-coronavirus-scott-atlas-herd-immunity/2020/08/30/925e68fe-e93b-11ea-970a-64c73a1c2392_story.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">controversial Fox News commentary</a> caught Trump&#8217;s eye &#8212; has been outspoken in challenging the accuracy of his fellow members&#8217; work and analysis, particularly the infection rate data collected and analyzed by White House coronavirus response coordinator, Dr. Deborah Birx.</p>
<p>Rather than focusing on ways to mitigate the spread of the virus, Trump and many of his advisers have resolved to obtain a vaccine as the only way to revive the economy and return to normality, even as outside experts warn that developing a vaccine would not be a silver bullet, the Post reported.</p>
<p>&#8220;They&#8217;ve given up on everything else,&#8221; said a senior administration official involved in the pandemic response, per the Post. &#8220;It&#8217;s too hard of a slog.&#8221;</p>
<p><a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/trumps-den-of-dissent-inside-the-white-house-task-force-as-coronavirus-surges/2020/10/19/7ff8ee6a-0a6e-11eb-859b-f9c27abe638d_story.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Read the full story here.</a></p>
<p>&#8212; Nina Golgowski</p>
<p><strong><a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/coronavirus-updates-trump-white-house-event-positive_n_5f86f1c8c5b6c5eccffc5a5b#update20201019-0630">Global Coronavirus Cases Top 40 Million &#8212; 10/19/20, 6:30 a.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>Worldwide coronavirus cases topped 40 million on Monday as the pace of infection picked up with the onset of winter, taking just 32 days to go from 30 million to 40 million cases. It took three months to reach 10 million cases from when the first cases were reported in early January.</p>
<p>There have been more than 1.1 million deaths globally, Reuters&#160;<a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/global-coronavirus-cases-40-million_n_5f8d5901c5b66ee9a5f1b078" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">reported</a>.</p>
<p>The true numbers of both cases and deaths are likely much higher, given inconsistencies in reporting and deficiencies in testing by some countries.</p>
<p>The U.S., India and Brazil remain the worst affected countries in the world.</p>
<p>&#8212;&#160;Liza&#160;Hearon</p>
<p><strong><a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/coronavirus-updates-trump-white-house-event-positive_n_5f86f1c8c5b6c5eccffc5a5b#update20201017-1820" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">More Than 1,000 Current And Former CDC Officers Slam Government Coronavirus Response &#8212; 6:20 p.m. ET</a></strong></p>
<p>More than 1,000 current and former officers of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention signed&#160;<a href="https://www.epimonitor.net/EIS-Officers-Letter-In-Support-Of-CDC.htm" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">a letter</a>&#160;criticizing the federal government&#8217;s response to the coronavirus crisis and demanding &#8220;our nation&#8217;s leaders to allow CDC to resume its indispensable role.&#8221;</p>
<p>The signees were current and former members of the Epidemic Intelligence Service, sometimes known as &#8220;<a href="https://www.cdcfoundation.org/blog/history-protecting-america-epidemic-intelligence-service" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">disease detectives</a>.&#8221; Founded nearly 70 years ago, the EIS is a two-year postdoctoral program for epidemiologists to get hands-on experience in the field.</p>
<p>&#8220;The absence of national leadership on COVID-19 is unprecedented and dangerous,&#8221; the letter said. &#8220;The U.S. epidemic is sustained by deadly chains of transmission that crisscross the entire country. Yet states and territories have been left to invent their own differing systems for defining, diagnosing and reporting cases of this highly contagious disease. Inconsistent contact tracing efforts are confined within each state&#8217;s borders &#8212; while coronavirus infections sadly are not. Such chaos is what CDC customarily avoided by its long history of collaboration with state and local health authorities in developing national systems for disease surveillance and coordinated control.&#8221;</p>
<p>The Trump administration has been criticized for sidelining the CDC. It reportedly went so far&#160;<a href="https://www.politico.com/news/2020/09/11/exclusive-trump-officials-interfered-with-cdc-reports-on-covid-19-412809" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">as to interfere in</a>&#160;the agency&#8217;s reports as it has largely failed in its response to the virus&#8217;s spread.</p>
<p>&#8212; Sara Boboltz</p>
<p><strong><a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/coronavirus-updates-trump-white-house-event-positive_n_5f86f1c8c5b6c5eccffc5a5b#update20201017-1243" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Rural Midwest Hospitals Are Struggling To Handle COVID-19 Surge &#8212; 10/17/20, 12:43 p.m. ET</a> </strong></p>
<p>Small towns and rural counties in the Upper Midwest and northern Plains are seeing surging COVID-19 rates as hospitals worry about sufficient resources.</p>
<p>Health officials have seen resistance to mask-wearing by residents who feel that it is &#8220;some kind of a political statement,&#8221; Tom Dean, one of only three doctors working in South Dakota&#8217;s Jerauld County,&#160;<a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/rural-midwest-hospitals-are-struggling-to-handle-covid-19-surge_n_5f8b171ec5b6dc2d17f765ee" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">told the Associated Press</a>.</p>
<p>Jerauld County, with a population of around 2,000, has a death rate that&#8217;s about four times higher than the nationwide rate.</p>
<p>&#8212; Hilary Hanson</p>
</div>