--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/13/multimedia/13virus-briefing-midwest/13virus-briefing-midwest-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Covid-19 Live Updates: Midwest and West Are Driving a Surge in U.S. Cases 
description: > 
  ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Midwest and West Are Driving a Surge in U.S. Cases Sixteen states each added more new cases in a seven-day period ending this week than they had in any other weeklong stretch of the pandemic.RIGHT NOW Northern Ireland will lock down for four weeks, as England begins new restrictions.New virus cases are trending upward in a majority of the states.—Advertisement Continue reading the main storyGlobal Roundup Northern Ireland will lock down for four weeks, as England begins new restrictions.A teacher in Belfast, Northern Ireland, had her temperature checked in August. 
date: 1602684230.3962605 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 14, 2020, 8:52 a.m. ET Oct. 14, 2020, 8:52 a.m. ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Midwest and West Are Driving a Surge in U.S. Cases Sixteen states each added more new cases in a seven-day period ending this week than they had in any other weeklong stretch of the pandemic. RIGHT NOW Northern Ireland will lock down for four weeks, as England begins new restrictions.

New virus cases are trending upward in a majority of the states. At a drive-through coronavirus testing site in Bismarck, N.D., last month. Credit... Tom Stromme/The Bismarck Tribune, via Associated Press Uncontrolled coronavirus outbreaks in the U.S. Midwest and Mountain West have strained hospitals, pushed the country’s case curve to its highest level since August and heightened fears about what the winter might bring. Sixteen states each added more new cases in the seven-day period ending Monday than they had in any other weeklong stretch of the pandemic. North Dakota and South Dakota are reporting more new cases per person than any state has previously. And in Wisconsin, home to 10 of the country’s 20 metro areas with the highest rates of recent cases, crews are preparing a field hospital at the state fairgrounds. “While we are hopeful we can flatten the curve enough to never have to use the facility, Wisconsinites across our state are struggling and they are rightfully scared of this virus,” Gov. Tony Evers wrote to legislative leaders this week in a letter seeking support for his mask order and limits on public gatherings. About 50,000 new cases are being reported each day on average in the United States for the week ending Monday. That is still far less than in late July, when the country averaged more than 66,000 daily cases. But the country’s trajectory is worrisome — and worsening. Many experts fear what could happen as cold weather encroaches on more of the country and drives people indoors, where the virus can spread more easily. New cases are trending upward in 36 states, including much of the Northeast, which is starting to backslide after months of progress, and in Illinois, which surpassed 9,000 total deaths this month. More than 820 new deaths and more than 54,500 new cases were announced across the country on Tuesday. Idaho and Wisconsin set single-day records for new cases. Hospital beds are filling with virus patients, especially in the Northern Plains states, according to data compiled by the Covid Tracking Project. Its data shows that 36,034 people are currently hospitalized with Covid-19, a higher number than at any time since Aug. 29. Testing remains insufficient in much of the country. “After nine months of battling this virus and hearing the updates each day, many of us forget that the hospitalizations and deaths are more than just numbers,” Dr. Ngozi Ezike, the director of the Illinois Department of Public Health, said on Tuesday. “They are our family, friends, and loved ones who have been directly impacted by Covid-19, which continues to spread.” — Mitch Smith and

Yes, you can be reinfected with the coronavirus. But it’s extremely unlikely. There have been fewer than five confirmed cases of coronavirus reinfections. Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times More than 38 million people worldwide have been infected with the coronavirus, and as of Monday, fewer than five of those cases have been confirmed by scientists to be reinfections. Nevertheless, fears of repeat bouts of illness, impotent vaccines and unrelenting lockdowns were raised anew when a case study about a 25-year-old man in Nevada was published on Monday. The man, who was not named, became sicker the second time that he was infected with the virus, a pattern the immune system is supposed to prevent. And rare as these cases may be, they do indicate that reinfection is possible, said Akiko Iwasaki, an immunologist at Yale University, who wrote a commentary accompanying the Nevada case study, published in The Lancet Infectious Diseases. The New York Times asked more experts what is known about reinfections with the coronavirus. It’s impossible to know how widespread the phenomenon is, they told us. To confirm a case, scientists must look for significant differences in the genes of the two coronaviruses causing both illnesses. In the U.S., many people were not tested unless they were sick enough to be hospitalized. Even then, their samples were usually not preserved for genetic analysis, making it impossible to confirm suspected reinfections. Plus, a resurgence of symptoms doesn’t prove reinfection. More likely, these are people experiencing symptoms connected to the original infection. But people with a second bout may pass the virus to others. An infection in a patient in Hong Kong was discovered only because of routine screening at the airport, and the man was isolated in a hospital even though he had no symptoms. But his viral load was high enough that he could have passed the virus to others. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Global Roundup Northern Ireland will lock down for four weeks, as England begins new restrictions. A teacher in Belfast, Northern Ireland, had her temperature checked in August. Credit... Liam McBurney/PA Images, via Getty Images Britain has long been divided on how it handles the pandemic, with England, Northern Ireland, Scotland and Wales taking divergent paths. Their differences were on display once again on Wednesday as Northern Ireland announced a four-week lockdown, and England’s three-tier system got off to a chaotic start in the northern city of Liverpool. Northern Ireland, with a population of about 1.8 million people, is reporting an average of nearly 900 new daily cases this week, compared with an average of just over 100 during the height of the first wave of the pandemic in mid April, according to figures compiled by the Belfast Telegraph. In response, it will close schools two weeks, and pubs and restaurants for a full month (takeout and delivery excluded). These changes will begin rolling out on Friday. Retail shops will be allowed to remain open. Arlene Foster, Northern Ireland’s first minister, announced the new measures in the regional legislature, known as Stormont, noting a “very worrying increase” in the number of new coronavirus cases. While localized restrictions have been in place for some time, cases have continued to surge. “This is deeply troubling and more steps are urgently needed,” Ms. Foster said. Of the region’s nearly 22,000 total recorded cases, more than a quarter have occurred in the past seven days. Liverpool, meanwhile, entered the “very high” alert level on Wednesday under England’s new three-tier system. Restrictions include a ban on meeting those from different households indoors and the closure of pubs and bars. As bars closed at 10 p.m. on Tuesday, patrons poured into the street in Liverpool’s Concert Square. Videos posted online showed crowds of mostly young people packed together, embracing and dancing in the street, even as area hospitals are bracing for a new wave of coronavirus admissions. Liverpool’s five members of Parliament have been highly critical of their region being singled out and have called for a broader national lockdown. The measures come as Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain faces criticism for ignoring scientific advice for a brief nationwide lockdown — saying it would come at too high a cost — and instead implementing the new three-tier system. In other news around the world: As the politicians governing Madrid continue to fight against a federal state of emergency imposed last Friday on Spain’s capital region, a second wave of the virus is spreading faster in other parts of the country. In the northeastern region of Catalonia, the authorities approved new restrictions, including a 15-day closure of all bars and restaurants, except for takeaway food. Shops must limit their occupancy rate at 30 percent. “We are in an extremely complicated situation,” the acting regional leader of Catalonia, Pere Aragonès, said on Twitter. The number of cases in Catalonia has risen about 40 percent in the past week. In Navarra, near Pamplona, which has in recent days superseded Madrid as the region with the highest official infection rate, new restrictions came into force on Tuesday that included closing playgrounds and outdoors sports areas, as well forcing restaurants to close at 10 p.m. Image Amid tighter virus-related restrictions in Italy, Pope Francis, right, maintained a safe distance from attendees during his weekly audience on Wednesday in Vatican City, Reuters reported. ”I would like to, as I usually do, go down and get closer to greet you,” Francis said. “But with the new regulations, it is better if we keep a distance.” Credit... Maurizio Brambatti/EPA, via Shutterstock — Megan Specia and

Pret A Manger will try anything to survive. A Pret A Manger in London. The chain’s new coffee subscription plan is also a way to gather data on the preferences of its customers. Credit... Tom Jamieson for The New York Times For some companies, the only response to the pandemic has been to hunker down and try to avoid running out of cash before their customers can return. Pret, the 37-year-old British sandwich and coffee chain that’s ubiquitous in central London, is now clearly willing to try anything: Pret wants to sell its food in supermarkets, and has already begun selling coffee beans on Amazon.

It has signed up to all the major food delivery platforms to bring its sandwiches, soups and salads to its work-from-home customers.

It opened a so-called dark kitchen in North London to prepare its food strictly for delivery, modeled on the success of Sweetgreen and Shake Shack, and hopes to open another dark kitchen in either New York or New Jersey soon.

It is devising a special menu of hot evening meals for delivery, such as a Chipotle Chicken Burrito Bowl​.

And then there is the coffee subscription, an effort to drive people back to the stores: Five drinks a day made by a barista (coffees, teas and smoothies) for 20 pounds ($26) a month. On the face of it, it could be an extraordinarily good deal. With two lattes a week, a subscriber will break even. And the first month is free. (Small print: You can’t order five drinks at once — there must be 30 minutes between each drink order.) —