--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/12/science/12virus-brief-med1/12virus-brief-med1-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Covid-19 Live Updates: White House Physician Says Trump Has Tested Negative in Rapid Test 
description: > 
  ET Covid-19 Live Updates: White House Physician Says Trump Has Tested Negative in Rapid Test The Supreme Court confirmation hearings look unlike any other in modern history, thanks to the coronavirus.RIGHT NOW White House doctor says rapid test show Trump has tested negative.White House doctor says rapid test show Trump has tested negative.Doctors said it’s somewhat reassuring that Mr. Trump has tested negative more than once, but said without more details from the more sensitive P.C.R.An enthusiastic Mr. Trump has promised to distribute these experimental drugs free to anyone who needs them. 
date: 1602542938.0430717 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 12, 2020, 6:16 p.m. ET Oct. 12, 2020, 6:16 p.m. ET Covid-19 Live Updates: White House Physician Says Trump Has Tested Negative in Rapid Test The Supreme Court confirmation hearings look unlike any other in modern history, thanks to the coronavirus. In Britain, new lockdown measures are causing tension. RIGHT NOW White House doctor says rapid test show Trump has tested negative.

White House doctor says rapid test show Trump has tested negative. Image President Trump boards Air Force One at Joint Base Andrews in Maryland for a campaign trip to Florida on Monday. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times President Trump has tested negative “on consecutive days” using a rapid antigen coronavirus test not intended for that purpose, the White House physician Dr. Sean Conley said in a statement released Monday, as the president prepared for a rally in Florida. The memo said the president tested negative on a rapid test called Abbott BinaxNOW, but experts cautioned that the test’s accuracy has not yet been investigated enough to be sure that the president is virus-free. “It doesn’t make much sense in my mind that they should be using the BinaxNOW test for this,” said Dr. Michael Mina, an infectious diseases expert at the Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. “But it’s one additional piece of information.” The BinaxNOW, which costs $5 and functions like a pregnancy test, looks for a protein produced by the coronavirus. It is most effective when the amount of virus in the body is high, but is much less sensitive than the P.C.R., the gold standard laboratory test. The Trump administration has purchased 150 million BinaxNOW tests and plans to ship them to states for use in schools and nursing homes. In an announcement of the tests’ deployment to states on Sept. 28, the Department of Health and Human Services cautioned that “results from an antigen test may need to be confirmed with a molecular test prior to making treatment decisions; this may be particularly true for negative results if there is a high clinical suspicion that the patient is infected.” “Infectiousness should be based more on symptom onset,” said Dr. Ranu Dhillon, a physician at Brigham & Women’s Hospital in Boston. The BinaxNOW, he said, “could be giving false negatives.” According to guidelines released by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, people with severe Covid-19, the disease caused by the coronavirus, may need to isolate for up to 20 days. But it has been unclear when exactly Mr. Trump’s symptoms began, or how severe they have been. On Monday, he departed for his Florida rally without a mask covering his face. Doctors said it’s somewhat reassuring that Mr. Trump has tested negative more than once, but said without more details from the more sensitive P.C.R. tests, it’s impossible to be sure that he is past the point of infectiousness. BinaxNOW’s “real power lies in marking someone who is transmissible, not the other way around,” Dr. Mina said. “I think they’re mixing things up a bit.” In a memo released Saturday night with limited information, Dr. Conley said that Mr. Trump was “no longer considered a transmission risk to others.” That memo did not explicitly categorize the president as “negative” for the coronavirus. —

Britain’s prime minister is closing pubs and bars in Liverpool as he announces a tiered lockdown plan. Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Monday ordered pubs and bars in the city of Liverpool to be closed to halt the spread of the virus. Credit... Paul Ellis/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain on Monday ordered pubs and bars in the coronavirus-ravaged city of Liverpool to be closed, a move that stoked tensions with local officials and laid bare how the second wave of the pandemic is afflicting England’s north far more seriously than London or the rest of the south. Mr. Johnson’s measures underscored that Britain is now in the heat of its battle to avert a repeat of last spring’s lethal outbreak. He announced a new three-tier system of restrictions which is designed to simplify what had become a confusing patchwork of targeted lockdowns around the country. But the rigors of this latest campaign are being felt unevenly: 2.4 million people in Liverpool and its suburbs face tough new restrictions while for now, life in London goes on more or less normally. The plan has infuriated officials in the north of England, who complain that they have been cut out of the government’s deliberations. They say the renewed lockdowns could throttle their economies and betray an election-year promise by Mr. Johnson’s Conservative government to raise prosperity in the economically blighted north to the level of London and the more affluent areas in the south. “We don’t want to go back to another national lockdown,” Mr. Johnson declared in Parliament. But with cases rising rapidly and more people now hospitalized with the virus than in March, he said it was time to impose more draconian restrictions. Under the government’s new system, cities or regions will be subject to escalating tiers of lockdown measures, depending on the severity of their outbreaks. Measures in the first tier basically duplicate the most recent restrictions Mr. Johnson announced for the entire country: a ban on social gatherings of more than six people and a curfew of 10 p.m. on bars and restaurants. The second tier imposes on a ban on socializing by people from different households, while the third and highest tier imposes a lockdown on pubs, gyms, and other nonessential businesses. Schools and offices will remain open, even in places subject to the highest level of restrictions. United Kingdom Covid Map and Case Count A detailed map shows the extent of the coronavirus outbreak, with charts and tables of the number of cases and deaths. But some health experts criticized the latest measures, saying they would neither stamp out the virus nor shield the economy from damage. Devi Sridhar, the chair of the global public health program at the University of Edinburgh, said the government failed to use the time during its earlier lockdown to put in place an effective test-and-trace program. Unless it remedied that failure now, there was little point to closing pubs or gyms. “It’s a slow strangulation of both the economy and human health,” she said. The virus is roaring back across much of Europe, where countries are reporting daily cases comparable to — and sometimes far beyond — those of the pandemic’s first peaks. Britain recorded over 15,000 cases on Saturday alone. France is weighing the possibility of local lockdowns as the country battles a second wave. In Spain, the federal government has used emergency powers to enforce a partial lockdown in Madrid, despite protests. Even Germany, much praised for its testing and contact-tracing capabilities, has reported a rise in infections this month. — Mark Landler and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

For the first time this season, a Southeastern Conference football game will be delayed. Image Vanderbilt quarterback Ken Seals calls a play from the line during their game against South Carolina, Saturday. Credit... Wade Payne/Associated Press The Southeastern Conference has postponed a game because of the coronavirus for the first time. The league, college football’s premier conference and home to 10 of the last 15 national champions, said Monday that Saturday’s matchup between Vanderbilt University and the University of Missouri would not be played as planned “due to positive tests and subsequent quarantining of individuals within the Vanderbilt football program.” In a statement, Vanderbilt said that after injuries, opt-outs and virus-related concerns, it did not have enough scholarship athletes — 53 is the conference’s minimum — available for the game, which was to be played in Columbia, Mo. League officials rescheduled the game for Dec. 12, one week before the conference championship. “The league and universities have been prepared for the likelihood of disruptions within the season while we all navigate the various challenges and complexities of competing during a global pandemic,” said Candice Lee, Vanderbilt’s athletic director. “As always, we are committed to taking whatever steps necessary for the health and safety of our students and community.” Dozens of college football games have been canceled or postponed, or played with undermanned rosters, in recent weeks because of the pandemic. Another game scheduled for this weekend in a top league, a Big 12 matchup between Oklahoma State University and Baylor University, was postponed on Sunday after “multiple” people associated with the Baylor football program tested positive. The Big Ten Conference is scheduled to begin play next week after it reversed its decision not to compete during the pandemic. The Pac-12 intends to start games in November. —

De Blasio pushed out an N.Y.C. virus crackdown plan. Cuomo overrode him. It led to mass confusion. Image A demonstration in the Borough Park neighborhood of Brooklyn on, Wednesday over the governor’s new coronavirus restrictions, which limited the number of people allowed in a house of worship in some parts of Queens and Brooklyn. Credit... James Estrin/The New York Times Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo had barely finished a fairly routine coronavirus briefing earlier this month when he got word that the New York City mayor, Bill de Blasio, had just blindsided him. The mayor unexpectedly announced that he intended to close down schools and nonessential businesses in parts of Brooklyn and Queens, where the virus was surging in communities with large Orthodox Jewish populations. Mr. de Blasio asserted that he had been in contact with the state, whose approval was needed. It took less than 24 hours for Mr. Cuomo to fire back. He halted the mayor’s plan to shutter businesses, calling it imprecise and incomplete, and sped up the closure of schools. By the next day, the governor unveiled his own plan: another phased-in lockdown, complete with color-coded maps and a barely veiled message for Mr. de Blasio. “A law doesn’t work if you’re too incompetent or too politically frightened to enforce it,” Mr. Cuomo said last week. The governor and mayor, both Democrats, have feuded for years, and their reluctance to work together closely has become a critical issue during the pandemic. Mr. de Blasio, who needed Mr. Cuomo’s approval to act, pushed out a plan without the state’s blessing, only to have the governor override that plan with one of his own — causing unnecessary confusion for thousands of business owners and school parents. Restaurants and other businesses were left wondering if they were meant to be open or closed; parents wondered the same about their children’s schools. Tricolor maps set boundaries in the middle of city blocks and public parks. Some rules resembled past restrictions; others were completely new. Areas in N.Y.C. With New Restrictions North Corona Jackson Heights Queensboro Hill Lefrak City MANHATTAN Pomonok Maspeth Forest Hills Hillcrest Middle Village Forest Hills Gardens Ridgewood Glendale Richmond Hill Woodhaven QUEENS BROOKLYN Sunset Park East Flatbush Canarsie Borough Park Bay Ridge Midwood Georgetown Mill Basin Fort Hamilton Bensonhurst Madison Mill Island Far Rockaway Bath Beach Homecrest Edgemere Manhattan Beach Coney Island Restrictions: Major Minor North Corona Jackson Heights Queensboro Hill Lefrak City Pomonok MANHATTAN Maspeth Forest Hills Hillcrest Middle Village Forest Hills Gardens Ridgewood Glendale Richmond Hill Woodhaven QUEENS BROOKLYN Sunset Park East Flatbush Canarsie Borough Park Bay Ridge Midwood Georgetown Mill Basin Fort Hamilton Bensonhurst Madison Mill Island Far Rockaway Bath Beach Homecrest Edgemere Manhattan Beach Coney Island Restrictions: Major Minor North Corona MANHATTAN Forest Hills Woodhaven QUEENS BROOKLYN Sunset Park Canarsie Midwood Far Rockaway Homecrest Coney Island Restrictions: Major Minor For observers of New York politics, the governor’s actions were no surprise. For the last seven years, Mr. Cuomo has overruled Mr. de Blasio again and again and again, seeing himself as both more capable and constitutionally correct: The city is, after all, a creation of the state, and, as Mr. Cuomo likes to remind people, the governor outranks the mayor. But that penchant for control over city affairs may have spawned a new set of problems. Mr. Cuomo’s crackdown sparked angry protests, federal lawsuits, and accusations that the governor was castigating Orthodox Jews, whose leaders urged more sensitivity toward a community once cast by Nazis as purveyors of disease. The protests in Brooklyn even became political fodder for President Trump, whose campaign signs were visible at some of the demonstrations. On Wednesday, the president used Twitter to suggest that the police response was emblematic of the “radical left.” Two days later, Mr. Cuomo accused the Trump campaign of instigating the protests. To some, the visceral backlash from the Orthodox community was inevitable, especially since the restrictions coincided with the weeklong Jewish holiday of Sukkot. And should the state’s intervention help fend off a possible second wave in New York, that would outweigh any fallout. Yet the public tug-of-war between Mr. Cuomo and Mr. de Blasio, just another of many during the pandemic and their overlapping tenures, hampered the implementation of the new rules. “I understand these are difficult acts to enforce,” Mr. Cuomo said last week. “These are state laws. Blame me. I have no problem with that.” Whether Mr. Cuomo’s plan would work was still an open question: The city issued some 60 summonses and more than $150,000 in fines over the weekend, as some congregants continued to gather in large groups. — Jesse McKinley, Luis Ferré-Sadurní, Dana Rubinstein and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Hours before Trump campaigns in Florida, Fauci cautions against holding rallies, saying it is ‘asking for trouble.’ Image Dr. Anthony Fauci said the Trump campaign should take down an ad that he says misrepresents his words. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times Hours before President Trump was set to return to the campaign trail in Florida on Monday, the nation’s top infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, warned that holding large rallies was “asking for trouble” with cases of the coronavirus surging in many states. Dr. Fauci, in an interview with CNN, said that Americans needed to be more cautious in the fall and winter months, and warned that rising rates of infections in a number of states suggested Americans should be “doubling down” on precautions rather than casting them aside. “We know that that is asking for trouble when you do that,” Dr. Fauci said of Mr. Trump’s decision to begin a full schedule of campaign rallies. “We’ve seen that when you have situations of congregate settings where there are a lot of people without masks, the data speak for themselves. It happens. And now is even more so a worse time to do that, because when you look at what’s going on in the United States, it’s really very troublesome.” He noted that many states were now seeing increases in positive tests. “It’s going in the wrong direction right now,” he said. He said that people should continue to wear masks and practice social distancing — and avoid large gatherings — to prevent new outbreaks. “That’s just a recipe of a real problem if we don’t get things under control before we get into that seasonal challenge,” he said. Dr. Fauci’s comments came one day after he objected to a new Trump campaign television ad that portrayed him as praising the president’s response to the pandemic. Dr. Fauci reiterated on Monday that the ad had taken his past remarks out of context, and called his inclusion in it “very disappointing.” He said he had been speaking more broadly about the collaborative efforts of the federal government and was “not a political person.” Asked by CNN’s Jake Tapper whether the ad should be taken down, something the Trump campaign says it has no intention of doing, Dr. Fauci said, “I think so.” In an interview with The Times on Monday, Dr. Fauci said that he had been unsuccessful so far in having the ad removed. “I wouldn’t know who to contact in the campaign to tell them to pull it down,” he said. “I spoke to someone who I know well in the White House to figure it out for me and tell me how to get it down. I haven’t heard back from them yet.” Dr. Fauci said that he did not want to be pulled into the fray of the campaign. “I never in my five decades ever directly or indirectly supported a political candidate and I’m not going to start now,” he said. “I do not want to be involved in it.” — Neil Vigdor and

As Trump returns to campaigning, his aides preview a final sprint. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times Officials with President Trump’s campaign told reporters on Monday that the final stretch of the race would be more frenetic than ever for the president as he tries to make up time he lost battling the coronavirus. Ahead of Mr. Trump’s return to the campaign trail Monday in Florida, with trips to Pennsylvania, Iowa and North Carolina scheduled for the three following days, aides previewed what they presented as a mad sprint to Nov. 3 and said they had no concerns about the candidate’s health or stamina. Jason Miller, the campaign’s senior strategist, said the president’s schedule would include “two to three events a day, and that will grow as we get closer to Election Day.” Bill Stepien, the campaign manager, who himself was returning to work just 10 days after testing positive for the virus, said the president’s packed calendar “reflects his health and well being. It’s going to be a big shot in the arm for the campaign.” Mr. Stepien said that he had been free of symptoms for the entire 10 days and that his decision to return to work was in line with guidance from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. He did not say whether or not he had tested negative for the virus. “We take a lot of precautions at headquarters here,” Mr. Stepien said. The pronouncement came as Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff who has been around the president in recent days, was spotted on Capitol Hill refusing to speak to reporters through a mask. The White House physician has not released results of Mr. Trump’s most recent test, which he says he took on Friday, though the president said on Sunday that he had tested “totally negative.” Video transcript Back bars 0:00 / 0:28 - 0:00 transcript Mark Meadows Refuses to Wear Mask to Speak With Reporters Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, refused to answer questions on Monday after a reporter asked that he wear a mask. “I’m sorry, thank you. Reporter: “Excuse me. Thank you.” “I’ll tell you what, let me do this, let me pull this away.” Reporter: “Yup, pull away.” “And then, that way I can take this off to talk.” Reporter: “No.” “Well I’m more than 10 feet away. I’m not — well I’m not going to talk through a mask. I’ll be glad to answer your questions.” Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, refused to answer questions on Monday after a reporter asked that he wear a mask. Credit Credit... Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times That may not be enough time to protect people Mr. Trump comes in contact with. Anyone who tests positive for the coronavirus should quarantine for at least 10 days after showing symptoms, to avoid spreading the infection to others, according to the C.D.C. The agency recommends a longer period of isolation for people who have had severe cases. Overall, the Trump campaign team expressed confidence, even as polls show Joseph R. Biden Jr. with significant leads in several battleground states. Mr. Miller also said that recent cuts in television advertising in key states like Ohio were not a sign of concern over cash flow, but rather indicated the campaign’s confidence there that they felt they could pull down ad buys with just three weeks to go in the race. He said the campaign was making new ad buys in Michigan, Pennsylvania, Florida and Nevada this week. And he reminded reporters that a spending advantage in 2016 did not deliver a win for Hillary Clinton. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The virus has made the Supreme Court confirmation hearing unlike any in history. Video transcript Back bars 0:00 / 4:19 - 0:00 transcript Amy Coney Barrett Hearing: Day 1 Highlights The Senate began four days of what are likely to be contentious Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Judge Amy Coney Barrett. “This is probably not about persuading each other. Unless something really dramatic happens, all Republicans will vote ‘yes’ and all Democrats will vote ‘no.’” “Do you solemnly swear that the testimony you’re about to give this committee is the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, so help you God?” “I do.” “Voting is underway in 40 states. Senate Republicans are pressing forward, full speed ahead, to consolidate a court that will carry their policies forward with, I hope, some review for the will of the American people.” “Democrats and their leftist allies have also shown that there is no low that they won’t stoop to in their crusade to tarnish a nominee. And I saw it all as chairman of this committee when Kavanaugh came up.” “With one stroke of a pen, one judge can decide if millions of Americans, including their family, would lose their insurance. One judge can decide if millions of Americans can lose their right to keep their kids on their insurance till they’re 26 years old. One judge can decide that if seniors’ prescription drugs, which already are too high, could soar even higher.” “Senator Klobuchar said a number of things about Covid that I agree with. She cited a bunch of really painful stories in Minnesota, and similar stories could be told from across the country. I even agree with parts of her criticism of the mismanagement of Covid by Washington D.C. I don’t know what any of that has to do with what we’re here to do today. Huge parts of what we’re doing in this hearing would be really confusing to eighth graders, if civics classes across the country tuned into this hearing and tried to figure out what we’re here to do.” “I’m not special or unique. Serious illness can hit anyone unexpectedly. It did for me. And when it does, no one should have to worry about whether they can afford care that might save their life.” “Your participation — let me be very blunt — in any case involving Donald Trump’s election would immediately do explosive, enduring harm to the court’s legitimacy and to your own credibility. You must recuse yourself. The American people are afraid, and they’re angry.” “But what your political opponents want to paint you as is a TV or cartoon version of a religious radical, a so-called handmaid, that feeds into all of the ridiculous stereotypes they have set out to lambaste people of faith in America. And that’s wrong.” “Senate Republicans have made it crystal clear that rushing a Supreme Court nomination is more important than helping and supporting the American people, who are suffering from a deadly pandemic and a devastating economic crisis. Their priorities are not the American people’s priorities.” “I look forward to answering the committee’s questions over the coming days. I try to remain mindful that while my court decides thousands of cases a year, each case is the most important one to the litigants involved. After all, cases are not like statutes which are often named for their authors. Cases are named for the parties who stand to gain or lose in the real world, often through their liberty or livelihood. When I write an opinion resolving a case, I read every word from the perspective of the losing party. I have been nominated to fill Justice Ginsburg’s seat, but no one will ever take her place. I will be forever grateful for the path she marked and the life she led.” The Senate began four days of what are likely to be contentious Supreme Court confirmation hearings for Judge Amy Coney Barrett. Credit Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times Judge Barrett’s four-day confirmation hearing looks unlike any other in modern history, thanks to the coronavirus pandemic. Republicans have insisted on going ahead despite a virus outbreak in Washington that appears to be linked to the crowded White House ceremony two weeks ago where Mr. Trump introduced Judge Barrett as his nominee. The president and most other attendees at the gathering were maskless. Mr. Trump has since tested positive for the virus, as have several other guests. At least two Republican senators on the Judiciary Committee, Mike Lee of Utah and Thom Tillis of North Carolina, also tested positive after attending the event. Mr. Lee was on hand in the hearing room on Monday morning, having met the “criteria to end Covid-19 isolation for those with mild to moderate disease” according to a letter he received from the attending physician of Congress, Dr. Brian P. Monahan. The committee room, Hart 216, had been transformed into a sparse room, with just a handful of reporters, guests and staff in addition to most senators and Judge Barrett. The proceedings are playing out partially by video to allow senators who may be sick or worried about infection to participate remotely. No members of the public — including protesters whose confrontational style set the tone for other confirmation fights — are allowed in the hearing room. Protesters blocked the entrance to Senate buildings, carrying posters and signs aimed at swaying senators for or against the confirmation. By the time the committee broke for lunch, the Capitol Police had arrested at least 21 people gathered outside for “unlawful demonstration activities.” Most senators, except for Mr. Graham and Senator Dianne Feinstein of California, the top Democrat, kept their masks on once the hearing began. A few senators, including Senators Kamala Harris of California, the Democratic nominee for vice president, Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, and Mr. Tillis were remote for the hearing. Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, also joined the hearing remotely as he finished out a period of self-quarantining after coming into contact with Mr. Lee. Mr. Cruz is expected to come to the hearing on Tuesday in person, a spokeswoman said. Senate Republicans on Monday issued a lengthy document defending their decision to proceed, quoting a letter from J. Brett Blanton, the architect of the Capitol, to Mr. Graham in which he said the seating arrangements for the hearing had been designed “in accordance with established guidelines and in consultation with the Office of Attending Physician to comply with Covid-19 safety protocols.” Mr. Blanton said his office was also following ventilation guidelines from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air-Conditioning Engineers, and that ventilation system in the room being used had “been evaluated to ensure they meet or exceed current standards.” Mr. Graham addressed the safety of holding a hearing during the pandemic first thing, saying that he doubted “there is any room in the country that’s been given more attention and detail to make sure it’s C.D.C. compliant.” He sought to dismiss criticisms from Democrats who said the hearings were unsafe and unnecessary to convene so quickly. “There are millions of Americans, cops, waitresses, nurses, you name it, going to work today to do their job and we’re going to work in the Senate to do our job,” he said. Should any more Republican senators fall ill, it could complicate Judge Barrett’s chances of confirmation. With two members of the party, Senators Susan Collins of Maine and Lisa Murkowski of Alaska, already opposed to proceeding before Election Day, Republicans, who control the Senate by a 53-to-47 majority, can afford to lose only one more vote. At Judge Barrett’s desk, she had been given a box of Clorox wipes and a sizable bottle of Purell, in addition to the customary bottles of water and note pad, and several other senators had their own Purell bottles and boxes of wipes. Her family was seated behind her, with Mark Meadows and Pat Cipollone, masked and distanced, seated on her other side. — Nicholas Fandos and

Scientists race for a super-antibody against the coronavirus. A medical technician takes a sample for a COVID-19 antibody test at a temporary testing facility in Chennai, India. Credit... Arun Sankar/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Even as vaccines are hailed as our best hope against the coronavirus, dozens of scientific groups are working on an alternate defense: monoclonal antibodies. These therapies shot to prominence just this month after President Trump got an infusion of an antibody cocktail made by Regeneron and credited it for his apparent recovery. Monoclonal antibodies are distilled from the blood of patients who have recovered from the virus. Ideally, antibodies infused early in the course of infection — or even before exposure, as a preventive — may provide swift immunity. An enthusiastic Mr. Trump has promised to distribute these experimental drugs free to anyone who needs them. But they are difficult and expensive to produce. At the moment, Regeneron has enough to treat only 50,000 patients. Dozens of companies and academic groups are also racing to develop antibody therapies. Already Regeneron and the drug company Eli Lilly have requested emergency use authorizations for their products from the Food and Drug Administration. But some scientists are betting on a dark horse: Prometheus, a ragtag group of scientists who are months behind in the competition — and yet may ultimately deliver the most powerful antibody. Prometheus is a collaboration between academic labs, the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, and a New Hampshire-based antibody company called Adimab. The group’s antibody is not expected to be in human trials until late December, but it may be worth the wait. Unlike the antibodies made by Regeneron and Eli Lilly, which fade in the body within weeks, Prometheus’s antibody aims to be effective for up to six months. “A single dose goes a long way, meaning we can treat more people,” said Kartik Chandran, a virologist at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and the group’s leader. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story