--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/13/science/13virus-brief-salvation/13virus-brief-salvation-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Covid-19 Live Updates: Johnson & Johnson Halts Its Vaccine Trial 
description: > 
  ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Johnson & Johnson Halts Its Vaccine Trial The pharmaceutical company paused the late-stage clinical trial of its coronavirus vaccine because of a sick volunteer.Johnson & Johnson pauses its coronavirus vaccine trial because of a volunteer’s ‘unexplained illness.’ Image Lab technicians at the Johnson & Johnson subsidiary Janssen Pharmaceutica in Beerse, Belgium, in June.Johnson & Johnson, which just began the so-called Phase 3 trial of its vaccine last month, was behind several of its competitors in the vaccine race, but its vaccine had some advantages over others.Both Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca developed their vaccines using adenovirus vectors, modified viruses engineered to carry coronavirus genes into human cells.Johnson & Johnson announced Monday night that it was halting its Phase 3 trial after a volunteer got sick. 
date: 1602585388.4927742 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 13, 2020, 6:14 a.m. ET Oct. 13, 2020, 6:14 a.m. ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Johnson & Johnson Halts Its Vaccine Trial The pharmaceutical company paused the late-stage clinical trial of its coronavirus vaccine because of a sick volunteer. RIGHT NOW At a campaign rally, Trump offers to give ‘a big fat kiss’ to attendees.

Johnson & Johnson pauses its coronavirus vaccine trial because of a volunteer’s ‘unexplained illness.’ Image Lab technicians at the Johnson & Johnson subsidiary Janssen Pharmaceutica in Beerse, Belgium, in June. Credit... Virginia Mayo/Associated Press Johnson & Johnson has paused the large late-stage clinical trial of its coronavirus vaccine because of an “unexplained illness” in one of the volunteers, the company said on Monday. The company did not say whether the sick participant had received the experimental vaccine or a placebo. The pause was first reported by the health news website Stat. Johnson & Johnson, which just began the so-called Phase 3 trial of its vaccine last month, was behind several of its competitors in the vaccine race, but its vaccine had some advantages over others. It does not need to be frozen, and it could need just one dose instead of two. It would also be the largest trial, with a goal of enrolling 60,000 volunteers. “Adverse events — illnesses, accidents, etc. — even those that are serious, are an expected part of any clinical study, especially large studies,” the company said in a statement. “We’re also learning more about this participant’s illness, and it’s important to have all the facts before we share additional information.” Trial pauses are often lifted quickly after the illness is investigated and deemed not to be a serious safety risk. “It’s actually a good thing that these companies are pausing these trials when these things come up,” said Dr. Phyllis Tien, an infectious disease physician at the University of California, San Francisco, a trial site for Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. “We just need to let the sponsor and the safety board do their review and let us know their findings.” “It doesn’t mean that the adverse event is related to the vaccine, but it needs to be investigated thoroughly,” said Dr. Luciana Borio, who oversaw public health preparedness for the National Security Council under President Trump and was acting chief scientist at the Food and Drug Administration under former President Barack Obama. Depending on the findings, she said, additional data may be collected, trial rules may be modified, or other steps may be taken to ensure safety. Johnson & Johnson’s is not the first trial to be paused because of safety concerns. Two participants in AstraZeneca’s trial became seriously ill after getting its vaccine. That trial was halted twice — most recently last month — and has still not resumed in the United States, though locations abroad swiftly broke the pause. Both Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca developed their vaccines using adenovirus vectors, modified viruses engineered to carry coronavirus genes into human cells. AstraZeneca’s vaccine used an adenovirus that causes common colds in chimpanzees. Johnson & Johnson’s used another adenovirus, called Ad26, which has also been used in its approved vaccine for Ebola. Experts say safety issues must be investigated and are one reason late-stage trials cannot be rushed — even for a president who has repeatedly claimed that a vaccine will be ready before the U.S. election on Nov. 3. “This kind of event epitomizes why vaccine development can’t be influenced by artificial timelines such as an election,” said John Moore, a virologist at Weill Cornell Medicine. — Virginia Hughes, Katie Thomas, Carl Zimmer and

‘Chaos and confusion’ could follow vaccine approvals. Image A vaccine manufacturing facility near Rome. Credit... Vincenzo Pinto/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images The United States may be within months of a profound turning point in the country’s fight against the coronavirus: the first working vaccine. Demonstrating that a new vaccine is safe and effective in less than a year would shatter the record for speed, the result of seven-day workweeks for scientists and billions of dollars of investment by the government. The path has not been without bumps. Johnson & Johnson announced Monday night that it was halting its Phase 3 trial after a volunteer got sick. And AstraZeneca also paused its trial, last month, after two participants became ill. Still, it’s tempting to look at the first vaccine as President Trump does: an on-off switch that will bring back life as we know it. “As soon as it’s given the go-ahead, we will get it out, defeat the virus,” he said at a September news conference. Instead, vaccine experts say, we should prepare for a perplexing, frustrating year. The first vaccines may provide only moderate protection, low enough to make it prudent to keep wearing a mask. By next spring or summer, there may be several of these so-so vaccines. Because of this array of options, makers of a superior vaccine in early stages of development may struggle to finish clinical testing. And some vaccines may be abruptly withdrawn from the market because they turn out not to be safe. “It has not yet dawned on hardly anybody the amount of complexity and chaos and confusion that will happen in a few short months,” said Dr. Gregory Poland, the director of the Vaccine Research Group at the Mayo Clinic. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Trump flouts safety protocols, news outlets balk at close coverage. Image President Trump’s rally on Monday, when many attendees did not wear masks. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times Major news organizations have become increasingly wary of sending journalists to travel with President Trump to White House events and campaign rallies, as the president and his aides continue to shun safety protocols after an outbreak of the virus within their ranks. The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post are among the major outlets that have declined to assign reporters to travel with Mr. Trump as he returns to the trail this week, saying they do not have assurance that basic precautions will be taken to protect reporters’ health. Foremost among the flouters is Mr. Trump himself, who, despite recently contracting the virus and spending three nights in the hospital, has shown little willingness to change his habits: On Saturday, he said the virus would soon “disappear,” and on the way to a rally in Florida on Monday, he boarded Air Force One — where reporters were seated in the cabin — without wearing a mask. At least three White House correspondents have tested positive for the coronavirus in the past two weeks, including a Times reporter who had traveled on Air Force One, Michael D. Shear. Safety concerns may also complicate Mr. Trump’s tentative NBC town hall on Thursday. NBC executives have asked the White House for proof that their employees will not face undue risks at the event, according to two people familiar with discussions. Among the concerns raised by reporters: Many flight attendants and Secret Service agents on Air Force One have not worn masks; White House aides who tested positive for the coronavirus, or were potentially exposed, are returning to work before the end of a two-week quarantine; and the campaign has instituted few restrictions at the raucous rallies that Mr. Trump is now pledging to hold. The White House press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany — who briefed reporters last weekend without wearing a mask, shortly before she tested positive for the virus — said on Monday that the Trump campaign would distribute masks but would not require attendees to wear them. —

The Czech Republic will close its schools as virus cases surge. In Prague on Sunday. The Czech Republic and neighboring Slovakia have registered big increases in coronavirus infections. Credit... Petr David Josek/Associated Press The Czech Republic, now battling the highest rate of coronavirus infection in Europe, will close schools Wednesday, joining Slovakia as the first countries on the Continent to impose sweeping school closures in an effort to curb the spread of the virus. “We only have one shot at this, and it has to be successful to make sure that our nation overcomes the pandemic this time as well,” Prime Minister Andrej Babis told the nation Monday night. The school closures are an expansion of measures that had already been put in place last month as the number of cases started to grow in August before exploding in September. On Monday, all theaters, cinemas and zoos were closed for at least two weeks. Restaurants and bars have to close at 8 p.m., and a maximum four people will be allowed per table. Even before the official decision to close schools, dozens were forced to suspend classes after teachers and students fell ill. The health minister, Roman Prymula, an epidemiologist who was appointed last month to direct the fight against the virus, said that the country’s health care system could soon be overwhelmed, forcing the country to take the painful step of closing schools. “We have to do it, because we do not have another chance, we are forced to take such a measure that will within two to three weeks reverse the trend, because otherwise we will exhaust the hospital capacity,” he said. As of Friday, the country recorded 451.2 coronavirus cases per 100,000 inhabitants over a 14-day period, according to statistics from European Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The death toll reached 1,045 on Monday, with more than half the deaths — 618 — coming since September, according to the health ministry. The Czech Republic’s neighbor Slovakia is now regularly reporting over 1,000 new cases per day and announced the closure of high schools on Monday. Most universities had already moved online. Prime Minister Igor Matovic called the development “a serious moment for Slovakia.” The country is considering limiting travel to its neighbor, which would be an extraordinary development for the two countries, which until 1993 formed one nation, Czechoslovakia. — Marc Santora and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story