--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/09/us/politics/09virus-briefing-northeast1/merlin_178198845_d854a8ac-4242-4f43-82a5-49e6fc116a8d-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Covid-19 Live Updates: The Northeast Held the Virus in Check. Now Cases Are Inching Up Again. 
description: > 
  ET Covid-19 Live Updates: The Northeast Held the Virus in Check.RIGHT NOW The World Food Program is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, particularly for its work during the pandemic.The World Food Program is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, particularly for its work during the pandemic.Aid sent by the World Food Program was distributed in Yemen in June.“In the face of the pandemic, the World Food Program has demonstrated an impressive ability to intensify its efforts,” the committee said. 
date: 1602252053.8882766 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 9, 2020, 8:44 a.m. ET Oct. 9, 2020, 8:44 a.m. ET Covid-19 Live Updates: The Northeast Held the Virus in Check. Now Cases Are Inching Up Again. The region, which was the hardest-hit part of the United States in the spring, is now seeing early signs of a second wave of the coronavirus. RIGHT NOW The World Food Program is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, particularly for its work during the pandemic.

The World Food Program is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, particularly for its work during the pandemic. Aid sent by the World Food Program was distributed in Yemen in June. Credit... Mohammed Hamoud/Anadolu Agency, via Getty Images The World Food Program, a United Nations agency, was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize on Friday for its efforts to combat hunger globally, the Nobel committee announced. The organization was recognized for its work during a coronavirus pandemic that has “contributed to a strong upsurge in the number of victims of hunger in the world,” the committee said in a statement. The United Nations body — the largest humanitarian organization addressing hunger and promoting food security internationally — last year provided assistance to nearly 100 million people in 88 countries. But in many countries, particularly those wracked by war, the combination of conflict and the pandemic has sharply increased the numbers of people on the brink of starvation. “In the face of the pandemic, the World Food Program has demonstrated an impressive ability to intensify its efforts,” the committee said. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Global Roundup China says it will join a global effort to distribute a vaccine, and other news around the world. Medical workers at the SinoVac vaccine factory in Beijing, China. Credit... Ng Han Guan/Associated Press China said on Friday that it would join a multilateral effort to manufacture and distribute a coronavirus vaccine, portraying itself as a responsible global citizen dedicated to improving public health around the world. The decision to join was “an important step China has taken to uphold the concept of a shared community of health for all and to honor its commitment to turn Covid-19 vaccines into a global public good,” Hua Chunying, a spokeswoman for the country’s Foreign Ministry, said in a statement. The decision highlights how Beijing is positioning itself as an influential player in international diplomacy at a time when the United States has pulled back from its role as a global leader. Such moves could potentially help China push back against accusations that its ruling Communist Party should be held responsible for its initial missteps when the virus first emerged last year. More than 160 countries have joined the international agreement known as Covax, which aim to ensure both rich and poor countries receive new coronavirus vaccines simultaneously. The Trump administration said last month that it would not join Covax because it “will not be constrained by multilateral organizations influenced by the corrupt World Health Organization and China.” For weeks, China, which has four vaccine candidates in late-stage clinical trials, had been reticent about whether it would participate in the group. Ms. Hua said on Friday that the country had decided to join the vaccine agreement “even when China is leading the world with several vaccines in advanced stages of R&D and with ample production capacity.” “We are taking this concrete step to ensure equitable distribution of vaccines, especially to developing countries, and hope more capable countries will also join and support Covax,” she added. In other news around the world: The health authorities in Sri Lanka ordered the closure of bars, restaurants, casinos, nightclubs and spas as they worked to contain a growing cluster of new virus infections, The Associated Press reported. The country reported its first locally transmitted case in more than two months last weekend, which led to the discovery of a cluster centered in a garment factory in densely populated Western Province, home to the capital, Colombo. By Friday the number of cases linked to the cluster had climbed to 1,053, with more than 2,000 more people asked to quarantine at home. Sri Lanka has reported 4,488 cases of the virus, and 13 deaths.

Oman will reintroduce a nighttime ban on movement and enforce the overnight closure of shops and public places starting Sunday for two weeks to help contain the virus, Reuters reported. The country’s beaches will also be closed until further notice, state media said, reporting a decision from the supreme council in charge of coronavirus policy. Oman has recorded 104,129 virus and 1,009 deaths. —

Dead, alive, on life support? Confusion reigns on stimulus as talks continue. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said of talks with Republicans, “We want to continue the conversation.” Credit... Pete Marovich for The New York Times On Tuesday, the bipartisan stimulus talks were off, abruptly ended by a series of indignant tweets by President Trump. On Wednesday, there was a glimmer of hope when he suggested he might reconsider, and top negotiators haggled privately by phone over possible legislation. By Thursday, the president performed a complete about-face and suggested that a deal could be at hand — then turned around and derided Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, the top Democrat in the discussions, as “Crazy Nancy.” Ms. Pelosi, for her part, teased the announcement on Friday of legislation establishing a commission to advise Congress on whether the president should be forcibly removed from office for mental or physical impairments. As tens of millions of Americans, schools and businesses watched the flurry of developments that could determine whether they would receive another infusion of desperately needed pandemic relief, confusion reigned in Washington about whether an elusive stimulus compromise was dead, alive, on life support or somewhere in between. What remained clear was that the political stakes, which have long imperiled a bipartisan bargain, have only heightened. And the collateral damage across the country has continued to mount in the absence of federal funding, with more than 800,000 Americans filing new applications for state benefits, before adjusting for seasonal variations. In separate appearances on Thursday, Mr. Trump and Ms. Pelosi insisted that talks were continuing, with the president suggesting that negotiators were now discussing $1,200 stimulus checks in addition to a potential aid measure for airlines to prevent tens of thousands of workers from being furloughed or laid off. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Spain uses emergency powers to lock down Madrid. People waited for a rapid antigen test in Madrid on Wednesday. Credit... Manu Fernandez/Associated Press Spain’s government on Friday decreed a state of emergency for the Madrid region, overruling Madrid’s own regional politicians, who had applied a limited lockdown on specific neighborhoods to try to stop a second wave of Covid-19. The government decided to use its emergency powers to lock down Madrid after suffering a major legal defeat on Thursday, when Madrid’s top regional court declared illegal its earlier effort to isolate Madrid from the rest of Spain. The intense feuding between the government and the regional administration of Madrid is highlighting the failure of Spain’s politicians to coordinate their response to the coronavirus, amid party polarization and fragmentation. At a cabinet meeting on Friday, the government decided that the state of emergency should come into force immediately, in a bid to stop about 4.8 millions of residents of the Madrid region from leaving for a long weekend, as Monday is a holiday in Spain. Police officers were expected to set up new road check points by 3 p.m. Friday. Enrique Ruiz Escudero, the regional health minister of Madrid, said that his administration would “ask every day for the state of emergency to be lifted because the numbers back us,” in insisting that locking down specific neighborhoods was sufficient to rein in the latest wave of Covid-19 in Madrid. The residents of Madrid, he added, “will not understand” the intervention of the central government, given the recent improvement in Madrid’s Covid-19 data. According to the regional government, the number of Covid-19 patients in the hospitals of Madrid has fallen to about 2,800 from 3,300 on Sept. 21, when selective lockdowns were introduced. However, Madrid’s lockdown strategy also triggered social tensions, because the restrictions affected mostly poorer areas of Madrid. —