--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/13/multimedia/13virus-briefing-plot/13virus-briefing-plot-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Covid-19 Live Updates: Virginia Governor Was Also Possible Target of Anti-Government Plot, F.B.I. Says 
description: > 
  ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Virginia Governor Was Also Possible Target of Anti-Government Plot, F.B.I.During Tuesday’s hearing, the authorities revealed that the suspects also spoke about “taking” the Virginia governor “based” on coronavirus lockdown orders that restricted businesses.On Tuesday morning, shares of Johnson & Johnson fell about 2 percent on the S&P 500.Both Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca developed their vaccines using adenovirus vectors, modified viruses engineered to carry coronavirus genes into human cells.“I would exclude a new lockdown,” Mr. Conte told reporters on Monday, “We specifically worked to prevent a new generalized lockdown.” — 
date: 1602608387.6796055 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 13, 2020, 12:24 p.m. ET Oct. 13, 2020, 12:24 p.m. ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Virginia Governor Was Also Possible Target of Anti-Government Plot, F.B.I. Says Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia was discussed as a possible target by members of an anti-government group charged last week with plotting to kidnap the Michigan governor, the F.B.I. said. Europe is trying to halt a second wave with targeted closures and travel restrictions. The soccer player Cristiano Ronaldo has tested positive for the virus.

Virginia’s governor was also a possible target of an anti-government plot, the F.B.I. says. Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia during a press briefing last month. He was discussed as a possible target by members of a group charged last week with plotting to kidnap Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, the F.B.I. said. Credit... Bob Brown/Richmond Times-Dispatch, via Associated Press Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia was discussed as a possible target by members of an anti-government group charged last week with plotting to kidnap the Michigan governor, the F.B.I. said on Tuesday. During a hearing in Grand Rapids, Mich., Special Agent Richard J. Trask II of the F.B.I. said that Mr. Northam and other officials were targeted because of their aggressive lockdown orders to restrict the spread of the coronavirus. Last week, 13 men accused of involvement in the alleged plot were charged with a variety of state and federal crimes including terrorism, conspiracy and weapons possession. They also talked of planning to storm the Michigan State Capitol and start a civil war, the authorities said. During Tuesday’s hearing, the authorities revealed that the suspects also spoke about “taking” the Virginia governor “based” on coronavirus lockdown orders that restricted businesses. Mr. Trask said that some of the suspects held a meeting in Dublin, Ohio, several months ago where they “discussed possible targets” for “taking a sitting governor.” Mr. Trask also provided additional details about the alleged plans to kidnap Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan. One of the suspects, Adam Fox, spoke about a plan to take Ms. Whitmer out on a boat in the middle of Lake Michigan, and leave her stranded with the engine disabled so that someone would have to “come rescue” her, Mr. Trask said. Last week, the authorities said the men were affiliated with an extremist group called the Wolverine Watchmen, which court documents called “an anti-government, anti-law enforcement militia group.” The group met many times for tactical and firearms training and practiced building explosives, the F.B.I. said, and spoke about attacking law enforcement officers. Mr. Trask and the prosecutor mentioned several other men who they said were involved in the surveillance and the discussion of the plot, including one from Wisconsin, but who were not among those arrested. The testimony also indicated that the participants were suspicious that government informants were monitoring or had infiltrated their group, changing encrypted messaging platforms and giving each other code names in hopes of escaping such surveillance. At one point after a planning trip to case the governor’s vacation home and the surrounding area, Mr. Fox asked that all the participants be scanned with a device that is supposed to identify if anyone was wearing a transmission wire or a recording device. The effort apparently failed, Mr. Trask said, with the group eventually infiltrated by four informants or undercover agents who continued to document what the group was planning. —

Europe scrambles to halt a rising wave of virus cases with more refined travel restrictions and closures. In Prague on Sunday. The Czech Republic and neighboring Slovakia have registered big increases in coronavirus infections. Credit... Petr David Josek/Associated Press Countries across Europe are desperately trying to hold at bay a fast-growing wave of new virus cases, employing targeted closures and travel restrictions to avoid the large-scale lockdowns that crippled economies in the spring. The European Union on Tuesday adopted new guidelines aimed at coordinating their varying travel measures. The bloc will now use a single map with a color-coded system to denote the scale of outbreaks: green at the low end of risk, orange in the middle and red at the high end. Other measures include unifying how quarantines and testing are done to smooth travel between E.U. countries, and ensuring ample warning when national travel advisories are about to change to ensure that travelers aren’t left stranded. But the measures are not mandatory, and individual member states said they wanted to reserve the right to take unilateral action, including stepping up restrictions or changing the risk category for regions based on their own assessments. The action came amid a flood of announcements of tightened policies and pointed warnings from national leaders. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on Tuesday voiced concern about the rise in cases “in almost every part of Europe,” Reuters reported. “We mustn’t throw away what we achieved via restrictions over the past months,” she said at a meeting of E.U. officials, according to the report. “These restrictions haven’t been easy for any of us,” she added. “Many have lost their lives. And that makes it all the more important that we make sure that a further lockdown won’t be needed.” The Czech Republic, which has reported more cases per capita in the last seven days than most other European countries, announced that it will close schools on Wednesday. Dozens had already been forced to suspend classes after teachers and students fell ill. “We only have one shot at this, and it has to be successful to make sure that our nation overcomes the pandemic this time as well,” Prime Minister Andrej Babis told the nation Monday night. The country is also closing theaters, cinemas and zoos. Restaurants and bars will be restricted to takeout orders starting Wednesday, and will have to close at 8 p.m. The health minister, Roman Prymula, an epidemiologist who was appointed last month to direct the fight against the virus, warned that the country’s health care system could soon be overwhelmed. He said the new rules should reverse the rise in two to three weeks. Neighboring Slovakia, which has seen a smaller increase in new cases, announced the closure of high schools on Monday. Most universities had already moved online. Slovakia is also considering limiting travel to the Czech Republic, which would be an extraordinary development for the two countries, which until 1993 formed one nation, Czechoslovakia. And in neighboring Poland, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was in quarantine after being exposed to someone who tested positive for the virus. His office said he had not been experiencing any symptoms, and he urged Poles to act responsibly in a video message posted on Facebook on Tuesday. Covid World Map: Tracking the Global Outbreak The virus has infected more than 37,860,200 people and has been detected in nearly every country. The virus has also surged again in the countries that were hit hardest in the first wave. Italy announced on Tuesday that it would prohibit parties and recommended that indoor gatherings be limited to six people. The decree, signed by Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, represents a second crackdown in less than a week as the second wave, which seemed to have hit Italy less violently than other European countries, is now gaining strength. The country registered 4,619 new cases on Monday. Italy is still registering fewer new cases than Spain or France. And while the number of daily cases is similar to the spring, deaths and patients in intensive care units remain lower. But the level of alert and the fear of a new lockdown remain high. “I would exclude a new lockdown,” Mr. Conte told reporters on Monday, “We specifically worked to prevent a new generalized lockdown.” In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain has also sought to avoid a lockdown, brushing aside advice from an influential group of scientists. Their recommendation, contained in newly published minutes from the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, or SAGE, has intensified the debate in Britain over whether Mr. Johnson’s government is doing enough to avert a second wave. On Monday, Mr. Johnson ordered pubs and gyms in the city of Liverpool to close, part of a new three-tiered system of restrictions targeting places hardest hit by the virus. But he has resisted pressure to impose a so-called “circuit breaker” lockdown — a brief national shutdown designed to stop the exponential increase in infections — saying it would come at too high an economic and social cost. In the minutes of its Sept. 21 meeting, posted online late Monday night, SAGE recommended a brief lockdown as one of several measures to stop what it warned could be a “very large epidemic with catastrophic consequences.” — Karen Zraick, Marc Santora, Hana de Goeij, Matina Stevis-Gridneff, Tolek Magdziarz and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Johnson & Johnson pauses its coronavirus vaccine trial because of a volunteer’s ‘unexplained illness.’ Image Lab technicians at the Johnson & Johnson subsidiary Janssen Pharmaceutica in Beerse, Belgium, in June. Credit... Virginia Mayo/Associated Press Johnson & Johnson has paused the large late-stage clinical trial of its coronavirus vaccine because of an “unexplained illness” in one of the volunteers, the company said on Monday. The company did not say whether the sick participant had received the experimental vaccine or a placebo. The pause was first reported by the health news website Stat. On Tuesday morning, shares of Johnson & Johnson fell about 2 percent on the S&P 500. Johnson & Johnson, which just began the so-called Phase 3 trial of its vaccine last month, was behind several of its competitors in the vaccine race, but its vaccine had some advantages over others. It does not need to be frozen, and it could need just one dose instead of two. It would also be the largest trial, with a goal of enrolling 60,000 volunteers. “Adverse events — illnesses, accidents, etc. — even those that are serious, are an expected part of any clinical study, especially large studies,” the company said in a statement. “We’re also learning more about this participant’s illness, and it’s important to have all the facts before we share additional information.” Trial pauses are often lifted quickly after the illness is investigated and deemed not to be a serious safety risk. “It’s actually a good thing that these companies are pausing these trials when these things come up,” said Dr. Phyllis Tien, an infectious disease physician at the University of California, San Francisco, a trial site for Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca. “We just need to let the sponsor and the safety board do their review and let us know their findings.” “It doesn’t mean that the adverse event is related to the vaccine, but it needs to be investigated thoroughly,” said Dr. Luciana Borio, who oversaw public health preparedness for the National Security Council under President Trump and was acting chief scientist at the Food and Drug Administration under former President Barack Obama. Depending on the findings, she said, additional data may be collected, trial rules may be modified, or other steps may be taken to ensure safety. Johnson & Johnson’s is not the first trial to be paused because of safety concerns. Two participants in AstraZeneca’s trial became seriously ill after getting its vaccine. That trial was halted twice — most recently last month — and has still not resumed in the United States, though locations abroad swiftly broke the pause. Both Johnson & Johnson and AstraZeneca developed their vaccines using adenovirus vectors, modified viruses engineered to carry coronavirus genes into human cells. AstraZeneca’s vaccine used an adenovirus that causes common colds in chimpanzees. Johnson & Johnson’s used another adenovirus, called Ad26, which has also been used in its approved vaccine for Ebola. Experts say safety issues must be investigated and are one reason late-stage trials cannot be rushed — even for a president who has repeatedly claimed that a vaccine will be ready before the U.S. election on Nov. 3. “This kind of event epitomizes why vaccine development can’t be influenced by artificial timelines such as an election,” said John Moore, a virologist at Weill Cornell Medicine. — Virginia Hughes, Katie Thomas, Carl Zimmer and

Another scaled-down relief package heads to the Senate, but it is unlikely to pass. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said on Tuesday that he planned to have the Senate vote “on targeted relief for American workers.” Credit... Pool photo by Michael Clubb The Senate will vote to advance another scaled-down package to provide funding to a lapsed federal loan program when the full chamber returns later this month, although it is unlikely that such a package would secure the necessary Democratic support needed to clear the chamber. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, announced on Tuesday that he planned to have the Senate vote “on targeted relief for American workers, including new funding” for the Paycheck Protection Program, a popular federal loan program for small businesses that has expired without congressional action. With negotiations over a broader stimulus package to infuse the economy with tens of billions of dollars again at an apparent impasse, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, wrote to lawmakers on Sunday asking for action on a stand-alone bill that would provide additional funds for the program and allow small businesses to again apply for loans that will be forgiven if a certain number of workers are maintained. But Democrats have so far resisted approving stand-alone bills and in the Senate prevented a proposal that would have provided $350 billion in new aid from advancing earlier this year because they deemed it insufficient to address the economic and health havoc caused across the country by the pandemic. Because of the 60-vote threshold needed to approve procedural votes, the legislation will not pass without some Democratic support. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and her top lieutenants spent the weekend criticizing the latest $1.8 trillion proposal Mr. Mnuchin put forward, with Ms. Pelosi saying, “In some instances, it makes matters worse.” “Tragically, the Trump proposal falls significantly short of what this pandemic and deep recession demand,” Ms. Pelosi wrote in a letter to Democrats on Tuesday. But the $1.8 trillion offer also faced additional resistance among the majority of Senate Republicans, who lashed out at top administration officials on Saturday for putting forward a counteroffer that they felt to be too expensive and veering toward catering too much to Democratic priorities. While Mr. McConnell did not release legislative text or offer additional details about what the Senate would vote on, it is likely to be much smaller than the $2.2 trillion stimulus package that House Democrats are pushing for and the $1.8 trillion framework Mr. Mnuchin has outlined. He also took care to underscore priorities for Senate Republicans in the weeks ahead of the election, noting that “unless Democrats block this aid for workers, we will have time to pass it before we proceed as planned to the pending Supreme Court nomination as soon as it is reported by the Judiciary Committee.” It also remained unclear whether President Trump understood the objections simmering among the Senate Republican conference, given that barely half an hour after Mr. McConnell’s announcement, Mr. Trump encouraged lawmakers on Twitter to “go big or go home!!!” on the stimulus. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As Trump flouts safety protocols, news outlets balk at close coverage. Image President Trump’s rally on Monday, when many attendees did not wear masks. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times Major news organizations have become increasingly wary of sending journalists to travel with President Trump to White House events and campaign rallies, as the president and his aides continue to shun safety protocols after an outbreak of the virus within their ranks. The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post are among the major outlets that have declined to assign reporters to travel with Mr. Trump as he returns to the trail this week, saying they do not have assurance that basic precautions will be taken to protect reporters’ health. Foremost among the flouters is Mr. Trump himself, who, despite recently contracting the virus and spending three nights in the hospital, has shown little willingness to change his habits: On Saturday, he said the virus would soon “disappear,” and on the way to a rally in Florida on Monday, he boarded Air Force One — where reporters were seated in the cabin — without wearing a mask. At least three White House correspondents have tested positive for the coronavirus in the past two weeks, including a Times reporter who had traveled on Air Force One, Michael D. Shear. Safety concerns may also complicate Mr. Trump’s tentative NBC town hall on Thursday. NBC executives have asked the White House for proof that their employees will not face undue risks at the event, according to two people familiar with discussions. Among the concerns raised by reporters: Many flight attendants and Secret Service agents on Air Force One have not worn masks; White House aides who tested positive for the coronavirus, or were potentially exposed, are returning to work before the end of a two-week quarantine; and the campaign has instituted few restrictions at the raucous rallies that Mr. Trump is now pledging to hold. The White House press secretary, Kayleigh McEnany — who briefed reporters last weekend without wearing a mask, shortly before she tested positive for the virus — said on Monday that the Trump campaign would distribute masks but would not require attendees to wear them. —

Dr. Fauci warns that a Trump ad ‘may turn off a lot of people’ by taking him out of context. Dr. Anthony S. Fauci stepped up criticism of a Trump ad that he said mischaracterized his comments on the White House coronavirus response. Credit... Pool photo by Al Drago Dr. Anthony S. Fauci insisted Tuesday that there was no “rift” between him and President Trump, even as he stepped up his criticism of the Trump campaign for quoting him “out of context” in a television ad praising the administration’s coronavirus response. “I have been a public servant, for five decades now and I have never either directly or indirectly endorsed any political candidate,” Dr. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease specialist, said in an interview, reiterating comments he made on CNN over the weekend. “That ad clearly implies strongly that I’m endorsing a political candidate, and I have not given them my permission to do that. And in addition to that, the quote that they took is completely out of context.” The Trump campaign released the new ad last week after the President was discharged from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center following treatment for Covid-19. “President Trump tackled the virus head on, as leaders should,” the ad declares, before switching to an interview in which Dr. Fauci said, “I can’t imagine that… anybody could be doing more.” Dr. Fauci said that comment was made “months and months ago” (in March, early on in the pandemic) in reference to the hard work of the White House coronavirus task force, when the group was “meeting literally seven days a week” and “knocking ourselves out.” He said he blamed the campaign, not “the president as a person,” but conceded he has little power to get the ad off the air. He said he has not contacted either the president or the campaign — “and I don’t want to contact them.” But he also warned that the ad could backfire. “I think if they keep doing that, and I make it clear that this is something that I’m not happy with, because I didn’t give permission, and that I would like them to stop, and they continue to do it,” he said, “they may turn off a lot of people.” The Biden campaign released an ad on Monday mocking the Trump campaign for the way it repurposed Dr. Fauci’s quote. The ad featured an obviously pasted-together montage of the president’s speeches, a few words at a time, in which he is made to say, “I am failing at managing the coronavirus outbreak.” Donald Trump is running TV ads taking Dr. Fauci out of context and without his permission.



So, here’s a message from the President in his own words. pic.twitter.com/WCYbIfrQLR — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) October 12, 2020 In an interview with The Daily Beast, Dr. Fauci said the campaign was “in effect, harassing me” — a comment he told The New York Times he made “because I had heard that they were going to continue to do it with other ads, given that I have explicitly said I do not like that, and I don’t give them permission.” On Monday, Dr. Fauci had warned that President Trump’s plan to resume a full schedule of rallies when the virus is surging in much of the country was “asking for trouble.” He told CNN, “We’ve seen that when you have situations of congregate settings where there are a lot of people without masks, the data speak for themselves. It happens. And now is even more so a worse time to do that, because when you look at what’s going on in the United States, it’s really very troublesome.” He noted that many states were now seeing increases in positive tests and suggested that Americans should be “doubling down” on precautions rather than casting them aside. Most of the audience at Mr. Trumps packed rally near Orlando, Fla., Monday night was unmasked. —

After a 7-month wait, one tourist got Machu Picchu all to himself. The Machu Picchu complex, the Inca fortress in the southeastern Andes of Peru, last year. Credit... Pablo Porciuncula Brune/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Jesse Katayama had planned to end a journey around the world 8,000 feet above sea level at Machu Picchu, the sprawling 15th-century Inca citadel high in the Andes Mountains. Then the coronavirus happened, stranding Mr. Katayama, a 26-year-old Japanese citizen, in Peru and shutting down tourism sites as a lockdown was imposed across the country. On Sunday, after a wait of seven months, Mr. Katayama finally got to visit the UNESCO world heritage site. And aside from a few guides, he got it all to himself. “After the lockdown, the first man to visit Machu Picchu is meeeeeee,” he wrote in a post on Instagram that included photos of him with a park representative. Alejandro Neyra, Peru’s culture minister, said in a virtual news conference on Monday that Mr. Katayama had been granted special access to the site in recognition of his patience. “He had come to Peru with the dream of being able to enter,” Mr. Neyra said. “The Japanese citizen has entered together with our head of the park so that he can do this before returning to his country.” Before the pandemic, Machu Picchu welcomed thousands of visitors a day. Tourists typically have to apply months in advance for permits to enter an Inca trail that leads to the ancient fortress. — Tiffany May and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Iceland’s tourism industry is preparing for a comeback. Image A hotel in Reykjavik, Iceland, is one of many in the country whose occupancy rate has plummeted during the pandemic. Credit... Bara Kristinsdottir for The New York Times Tourism is undergoing a downturn all over the world, but several factors make Iceland particularly vulnerable to the industry’s crash: geographic isolation, a small domestic population, strict border measures and an economy that — after an extraordinary, decade-long tourism boom — had come to depend heavily on foreign tourists. A recent surge in coronavirus cases has added to Iceland’s challenges. But while visitor numbers are low, Iceland is positioning itself for a major tourism rebound after the pandemic. The government is investing more than $12 million in tourism infrastructure, while improving roads and harbors across the country. To keep the tourism industry afloat in the short term, the government is also investing more than $9 million in a program that distributes free travel vouchers to Icelandic citizens and residents. A marketing campaign targeting domestic tourists was rolled out in the late spring; an international version will be unveiled as soon as travel restrictions are lifted. The voucher campaign helped to jump-start demand for hotels, restaurants and attractions. So far, Icelanders have used more than $1.2 million worth of their free travel vouchers, which are valid through the end of the year. The summer was “pretty good, considering everything,” said Bjarnheidur Hallsdottir, the chairwoman of the board of the Icelandic Travel Industry Association and the chief executive of two tourism companies. “And then suddenly out of nowhere, the government decided to change the rules at the borders. Since then, everyone is crying.” Under the new rules, which took effect in August, arriving passengers may choose either to submit to two screening tests for the virus, separated by five days’ self-quarantine, or to skip border screening and self-quarantine for 14 days after arrival. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Italy tightens rules for the second time in a week to slow infections. Outside the Colosseum in Rome last week, when the authorities in Italy ordered face coverings worn at all times outdoors. Credit... Guglielmo Mangiapane/Reuters The Italian government continued to tighten restrictions in an effort to stem a resurgence in virus cases, announcing on Tuesday a ban on informal amateur contact sports, parties and school trips. The decree, signed by Italy’s prime minister Giuseppe Conte, represents a second crackdown in less than a week as the second wave of the coronavirus, which seemed to have hit Italy less violently than other European countries, is now gaining strength, with 4,619 new cases registered on Monday. The new decree introduces a general ban on parties and recommends private gatherings be limited to no more than six people inside homes. It also sets a limit of 30 guests for banquets organized after religious or civil ceremonies. To avoid crowds, Mr. Conte also ordered restaurants, bars and ice-cream sellers to stop serving non-seated customers after 9 p.m. While contact sports, such as soccer or basketball, are now banned in informal contexts, trainings and matches organized by clubs are still permitted. Italy is still in a better position compared with countries such as Spain or France, and while the number of daily infections is similar to those reached in Italy during the spring, the number of deaths and of patients in intensive care units remains lower. But in Italy, the first and one of the worst-hit countries in Europe, the level of alert and the fear of a new lockdown remain high. “I would exclude a new lockdown,” Mr. Conte told reporters on Monday, “We specifically worked to prevent a new generalized lockdown.” —