--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://nypost.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2020/10/lauren-conlin-matt-conlin-mj-paisley-.jpg?quality=90&strip=all&w=1200 
title: > 
  COVID-19 fears turning NYC playgrounds into war zones 
description: > 
  Lauren Conlin has seen her share of pandemic playground drama.“He was probably 6 feet from her, but her face — she was so scared and so disturbed,” Conlin said.So when they reopened in June, many parents — after spending months cooped up in apartments with their little ones — rejoiced.But now, as people who had fled the city during the darker days of the pandemic return, playgrounds have gotten increasingly crowded.“You can tell a lot when looking at a person’s eyes — if they’re smiling, if they’re upset. 
keywords: > 
  playground, kids, nyc, theyre, turning, pandemic, away, conlin, covid19, parents, war, mask, little, playgrounds, fears, zones, wearing 
date: 1603221884.6903193 
--- 
<div><p>Sign up for our special edition newsletter to get a daily update on the coronavirus pandemic.</p><p>Lauren Conlin has seen her share of pandemic playground drama. Once, another mom yelled at her for briefly pulling her mask down so she could sip her iced coffee. &#8220;I was about 8 feet away and she said, &#8216;Ma&#8217;am, can you pull your mask up? Like, there&#8217;s a reason we wear these,&#8217;&#8201;&#8221; Conlin, a celebrity correspondent and host of the &#8220;Red Carpet Rendezvous&#8221; podcast, told The Post. &#8220;I didn&#8217;t say anything back, but [internally] I was like, &#8216;Chill, Karen, I&#8217;m nowhere near you!&#8217; &#8221;</p>
<p>Another time, a 7-year-old gave Conlin&#8217;s 2-year-old son, MJ, a dirty look when the toddler sneezed near her.</p>
<p>&#8220;He was probably 6 feet from her, but her face &#8212; she was so scared and so disturbed,&#8221; Conlin said. &#8220;I was like, &#8216;I&#8217;m so sorry! He&#8217;s not sick! He just sneezed! He&#8217;s not wearing a mask because he&#8217;s not even 2!&#8217; I felt the need to explain myself to her.&#8221;</p>
<p>Yet nothing matched the pandemonium of a recent Saturday at Central Park&#8217;s Billy Johnson Playground &#8212; the one with the famed 45-foot granite slide.</p>
<p>&#8220;It was hectic: The kids were crawling all over each other to get up to the slide with their pieces of cardboard,&#8221; said Conlin, 35, who lives on the Upper East Side, referring to the squares regulars sit on for added speed. &#8220;Then one little girl started taking her cardboard and hitting another girl with it pretty hard.&#8221; Everyone was wearing masks, but hardly distancing. &#8220;There was a huge screaming match [between the parents] .&#8201;.&#8201;. We were all in shock.&#8221;</p>
<p>The <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/04/01/cuomo-closes-all-nyc-playgrounds-to-stop-coronavirus-spread/">state closed public playgrounds</a> on April 1, when New York was deep in the throes of the coronavirus. So when <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/06/18/nyc-playgrounds-to-reopen-june-22-as-city-enters-phase-2/">they reopened in June</a>, many parents &#8212; after spending months cooped up in apartments with their little ones &#8212; rejoiced. But now, as <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/08/11/new-yorkers-flee-nyc-in-droves/">people who had fled the city</a> during the darker days of the pandemic <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/09/20/new-york-city-workers-start-to-return-to-offices/">return</a>, playgrounds have gotten increasingly crowded. <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/05/18/how-will-nyc-beaches-and-pools-be-different-when-they-reopen/">Kids who used to play well with others</a> seem to have forgotten how. Add to that parents&#8217; continued anxiety about virus exposure, and it&#8217;s a perfect storm for drama.</p>
<p>&#8220;The playgrounds are definitely more tense now,&#8221; Conlin said.</p>
 
<p>Antonio D&#8217;Souza, who lives on the Upper West Side and has a 5-year-old and a 3-year-old, said he has noticed that children with overly concerned parents seem to have a harder time adjusting to pandemic playground life.</p>
<p>&#8220;I saw a dad following his daughter around the jungle gym, saying, &#8216;Don&#8217;t touch this; don&#8217;t touch that,&#8217;&#8201;&#8221; the 40-year-old engineer recalled. &#8220;It just made her really nervous.&#8221;</p>
<p>He also notes that some children who were either away all summer in houses with yards or who were isolated from other kids seem to have lost their socialization skills.</p>
<p>&#8220;We have friends who only brought their 3-year-old son to the playground for the first time [since March] like, two or three weeks ago,&#8221; D&#8217;Souza said. &#8220;He had not seen any other kids in six months and he didn&#8217;t even know what to do.&#8221; D&#8217;Souza said that sometimes a parent would bring a clinging kid and set them next to another kid, only for the child to run back to the parent and stay clinging to their legs.</p>
<p>&#8220;What the child needs most right now is for parents to be calm .&#8201;.&#8201;. because going to the park will not be a good experience if they feel their parents&#8217; anxiety or tension,&#8221; clinical psychologist Judith Zackson told The Post. &#8220;The child needs to understand that the park is still a fun place and it can still be a safe place, but there are just different rules.&#8221;</p>
<p>Zackson added that if the situation feels too emotionally charged, sometimes it&#8217;s best to leave.</p>
<p>That&#8217;s why Steph McCrory has decided to avoid the park entirely. Her 3-year-old son, Finn, has an autoimmune condition called Mastocytosis that causes lesions on his skin.</p>
 
<p>&#8220;Even before the pandemic, we would get the odd little glance, or a mother subtly pulling the child away when [Finn] gets too close,&#8221; said the 31-year-old Astoria resident. &#8220;But people are hypersensitive right now .&#8201;.&#8201;. I see posts all the time on my mommy Facebook groups saying, &#8216;I&#8217;ve seen this person at the playground without a mask,&#8217; or &#8216;This kid pulled their mask down,&#8217; and I knew that tension plus the concern about Finn&#8217;s spots was just something I didn&#8217;t want to deal with.&#8221;</p>
<p>Even though Finn was initially disappointed, McCrory has decided to skip the potential stares and hurtful responses from strangers at the playground for scootering around their neighborhood.</p>
<p>Indeed, stares are the communication currency now that the majority are wearing masks.</p>
<p>&#8220;It&#8217;s hard to talk to a stranger in the park when you&#8217;re wearing a mask. Some people say the masks are taking away our freedom and taking away our ability to live and communicate. But [the mask] gives us a chance to pay attention to nonverbal cues &#8212; to tone, to the eyes,&#8221; Zackson said. &#8220;You can tell a lot when looking at a person&#8217;s eyes &#8212; if they&#8217;re smiling, if they&#8217;re upset. And also to the way that their body behaves &#8212; if they&#8217;re moving away from you, if they&#8217;re leaning in towards you.&#8221;</p>
 
<p>Dad Heath Fradkoff, for one, says there can be power in a pointed glance: &#8220;For the most part, everyone&#8217;s been doing a good job at distancing and keeping safe,&#8221; said the 42-year-old, who lives in Red Hook with his wife, 3-year-old son and 18-month-old daughter. &#8220;The outliers get a little of the side eye and they get in line, too.&#8221;</p>
<p>But Fradkoff said a little discomfort is worth the joy of letting his kids let loose and feeling a part of a community once again.</p>
<p>&#8220;As a city, New York&#8217;s superpower is its ability to come together in a crisis, and it was this superpower that the pandemic took away from us,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Getting back to the playgrounds feels like a small triumph in light of all that. Watching our kids just be kids for a while &#8212; even if it looks a little different than before, with masks and hand sanitizer at-the-ready &#8212; feels important.&#8221;</p>
			</div>