--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/13/us/politics/13virus-briefing-herd1/merlin_170023194_f46d68c3-ea22-4e9b-9b7e-c16953f663cc-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Covid-19 Live Updates: White House Embraces ‘Herd Immunity’ Declaration 
description: > 
  ET Covid-19 Live Updates: White House Embraces ‘Herd Immunity’ Declaration The Midwest and West are driving a virus surge in the U.S.During Tuesday’s hearing, the authorities revealed that the suspects also spoke about “taking” the Virginia governor “based” on coronavirus lockdown orders that restricted businesses.Dr. Anthony S. Fauci stepped up criticism of a Trump ad that he said mischaracterized his comments on the White House coronavirus response.Some of those in attendance, including Mr. Trump and the first lady, later tested positive for the virus.Tunisia has seen a sharp spike in virus cases in recent days. 
date: 1602632305.3886695 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 13, 2020, 7:03 p.m. ET Oct. 13, 2020, 7:03 p.m. ET Covid-19 Live Updates: White House Embraces ‘Herd Immunity’ Declaration The Midwest and West are driving a virus surge in the U.S. The Eli Lilly antibody trial is paused because of potential safety concerns, just a day after Johnson & Johnson announced the pause of its coronavirus vaccine trial because of a sick volunteer. RIGHT NOW White House embraces declaration that opposes lockdowns and relies on ‘herd immunity.’

White House embraces declaration that opposes lockdowns and relies on ‘herd immunity.’ A crowd of commuters in the World Trade Center transportation hub, Wednesday, March 4, 2020 Credit... Mark Lennihan/Associated Press The White House has embraced a declaration by a group of scientists arguing that authorities should allow the coronavirus to spread among young healthy people while protecting the elderly and the vulnerable — an approach that would rely on arriving at “herd immunity” through infections rather than a vaccine. Many experts say “herd immunity” — the point at which a disease stops spreading because nearly everyone in a population has contracted it — is still very far off. Leading experts have concluded, using different scientific methods, that about 85 to 90 percent of the American population is still susceptible to the coronavirus. On a call convened Monday by the White House, two senior administration officials, both speaking anonymously because they were not authorized to give their names, cited an October 4 petition entitled The Great Barrington Declaration, which argues against lockdowns and calls for a reopening of businesses and schools. “Current lockdown policies are producing devastating effects on short and long-term public health,” the declaration states, adding, “The most compassionate approach that balances the risks and benefits of reaching herd immunity, is to allow those who are at minimal risk of death to live their lives normally to build up immunity to the virus through natural infection, while better protecting those who are at highest risk. We call this Focused Protection.” The declaration has more than 9,000 signatories from all over the world, its website says, though most of the names are not public. The document grew out of a meeting hosted by the American Institute for Economic Research, a libertarian-leaning research organization. Its lead authors include Dr. Jay Bhattacharya, an epidemiologist and infectious disease expert at Stanford University, academic home of Dr. Scott Atlas, President Trump’s science adviser. Dr. Atlas has also espoused herd immunity. The declaration’s architects include Sunetra Gupta and Gabriela Gomes, two scientists who have proposed that societies may achieve herd immunity when 10 to 20 percent of their populations have been infected with the virus, a position most epidemiologists disagree with. Last month, at the request of The New York Times, three epidemiological teams calculated the percentage of the country that is infected. What they found runs strongly counter to the theory being promoted in influential circles that the United States has either already achieved herd immunity or is close to doing so, and that the pandemic is all but over. That conclusion would imply that businesses, schools and restaurants could safely reopen, and that masks and other distancing measures could be abandoned. “The idea that herd immunity will happen at 10 or 20 percent is just nonsense,” said Dr. Christopher J.L. Murray, director of the University of Washington’s Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, which produced the epidemic model frequently cited during White House news briefings as the epidemic hit hard in the spring. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Virginia’s governor was also a possible target of an anti-government plot, the F.B.I. says. Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia during a news briefing last month. He was discussed as a possible target by members of a group charged last week with plotting to kidnap Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, the F.B.I. said. Credit... Bob Brown/Richmond Times-Dispatch, via Associated Press Gov. Ralph Northam of Virginia was discussed as a possible target by members of an anti-government group charged last week with plotting to kidnap Gov. Gretchen Whitmer of Michigan, the F.B.I. said on Tuesday. During a hearing in Grand Rapids, Mich., Special Agent Richard J. Trask II of the F.B.I. said that Mr. Northam and other officials were targeted because of their aggressive lockdown orders to restrict the spread of the coronavirus. Last week, 13 men accused of involvement in the alleged plot were charged with a variety of state and federal crimes including terrorism, conspiracy and weapons possession. During Tuesday’s hearing, the authorities revealed that the suspects also spoke about “taking” the Virginia governor “based” on coronavirus lockdown orders that restricted businesses. The F.B.I. alerted members of Mr. Northam’s security team throughout their investigation, Alena Yarmosky, Mr. Northam’s press secretary, said in a statement. The governor was not informed, “per security protocols,” Ms. Yarmosky said, but added that “at no time was the governor or his family in imminent danger.” Mr. Northam, a Democrat, issued a statewide stay-at-home order on March 30, instructing residents to leave their homes only for work, medical appointments, family care, shopping for essentials and “outdoor activity with strict social distancing requirements.” In April, President Trump had openly encouraged right-wing protests of social distancing restrictions in Virginia, Michigan and other states with stay-at-home orders, a day after his administration had announced guidelines for governors to set their own timetables for reopening. “LIBERATE VIRGINIA, and save your great 2nd Amendment,” the president wrote on Twitter at the time. “It is under siege!” Ms. Yarmosky referenced the president’s tweets in the statement from Mr. Northam’s office and said that the “rhetoric coming out of this White House has serious and potentially deadly consequences.” She added: “It must stop.” Mr. Trask of the F.B.I. said that some of the suspects had held a meeting in Dublin, Ohio, several months ago where they “discussed possible targets” for “taking a sitting governor.” Last week, the authorities said the men were affiliated with an extremist group called the Wolverine Watchmen, which court documents called “an anti-government, anti-law enforcement militia group.” — Giulia McDonnell Nieto del Rio and

Europe scrambles to halt a rising wave of virus cases with more refined travel restrictions and closures. In Prague on Sunday. The Czech Republic and neighboring Slovakia have registered big increases in coronavirus infections. Credit... Petr David Josek/Associated Press Countries across Europe are desperately trying to hold at bay a fast-growing wave of new virus cases, employing targeted closures and travel restrictions to avoid the large-scale lockdowns that crippled economies in the spring. The European Union on Tuesday adopted new guidelines aimed at coordinating members’ varying travel measures. The bloc will now use a single map with a color-coded system to denote the scale of outbreaks: green at the low end of risk, orange in the middle and red at the high end. Other measures include unifying how quarantines and testing are done to smooth travel between E.U. countries, and ensuring ample warning when national travel advisories are about to change to ensure that travelers aren’t left stranded. But the measures are not mandatory, and individual member states said they wanted to reserve the right to take unilateral action, including stepping up restrictions or changing the risk category for regions based on their own assessments. The action came amid a flood of announcements of tightened policies and pointed warnings from national leaders. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany on Tuesday voiced concern about the rise in cases “in almost every part of Europe,” Reuters reported. “We mustn’t throw away what we achieved via restrictions over the past months,” she said at a meeting of E.U. officials, according to the report. “These restrictions haven’t been easy for any of us,” she added. “Many have lost their lives. And that makes it all the more important that we make sure that a further lockdown won’t be needed.” Officials in the Netherlands announced a four-week partial lockdown on Tuesday. Bars, pubs and restaurants will close, but takeout will be allowed and hotels can stay open. The government is planning to make face masks mandatory in public places, including high schools and shops. Group sports for adults will also be prohibited, Prime Minister Mark Rutte said. The Czech Republic, which has reported more cases per capita in the last seven days than most other European countries, announced that it will close schools on Wednesday. Dozens had already been forced to suspend classes after teachers and students fell ill. “We only have one shot at this, and it has to be successful to make sure that our nation overcomes the pandemic this time as well,” Prime Minister Andrej Babis told the nation Monday night. The country is also closing theaters, cinemas and zoos. Restaurants and bars will be restricted to takeout orders starting Wednesday, and will have to close at 8 p.m. The health minister, Roman Prymula, said the new rules should reverse the rise in two to three weeks. Neighboring Slovakia, which has seen a smaller increase in new cases, announced the closure of high schools on Monday. Most universities had already moved online. Slovakia is also considering limiting travel to the Czech Republic, which would be an extraordinary development for the two countries, which until 1993 formed one nation, Czechoslovakia. And in Poland, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki was in quarantine after being exposed to someone who tested positive for the virus. His office said he had not been experiencing any symptoms, and he urged Poles to act responsibly in a video message posted on Facebook on Tuesday. Covid World Map: Tracking the Global Outbreak The virus has infected more than 37,992,000 people and has been detected in nearly every country. The virus has also surged again in the countries that were hit hardest in the first wave. Italy announced on Tuesday that it would prohibit parties and recommended that indoor gatherings be limited to six people. The decree, signed by Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, represents a second crackdown in less than a week as the second wave, which seemed to have hit Italy less violently than other European countries, is now gaining strength. The country registered 4,619 new cases on Monday. Italy is still registering fewer new cases than Spain or France. And while the number of daily cases is similar to the spring, deaths and patients in intensive care units remain lower. But the level of alert and the fear of a new lockdown both remain high. “I would exclude a new lockdown,” Mr. Conte told reporters on Monday, “We specifically worked to prevent a new generalized lockdown.” In Britain, Prime Minister Boris Johnson has also sought to avoid a lockdown, brushing aside advice from an influential group of scientists. Their recommendation, contained in newly published minutes from the government’s Scientific Advisory Group for Emergencies, or SAGE, has intensified the debate in Britain over whether Mr. Johnson’s government is doing enough to avert a second wave. On Monday, Mr. Johnson ordered pubs and gyms in the city of Liverpool to close, part of a new three-tiered system of restrictions targeting places hardest hit by the virus. But he has resisted pressure to impose a so-called “circuit breaker” lockdown — a brief national shutdown designed to stop the exponential increase in infections — saying it would come at too high an economic and social cost. In the minutes of its Sept. 21 meeting, posted online late Monday night, SAGE recommended a brief lockdown as one of several measures to stop what it warned could be a “very large epidemic with catastrophic consequences.” — Karen Zraick, Marc Santora, Hana de Goeij, Matina Stevis-Gridneff, Tolek Magdziarz, Monika Pronczuk and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Another scaled-down relief package heads to the Senate, but it is unlikely to pass. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, said on Tuesday that he planned to have the Senate vote “on targeted relief for American workers.” Credit... Pool photo by Michael Clubb The Senate will vote to advance another scaled-down package to provide funding to a lapsed federal loan program when the full chamber returns later this month, although it is unlikely that such a package would secure the necessary Democratic support needed to clear the chamber. Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the majority leader, announced on Tuesday that he planned to have the Senate vote “on targeted relief for American workers, including new funding” for the Paycheck Protection Program, a popular federal loan program for small businesses that has expired without congressional action. Speaking at an event in his home state, Mr. McConnell said the legislation would also likely have funds for schools, hospitals and supplemental unemployment insurance benefits. With negotiations over a broader stimulus package to infuse the economy with tens of billions of dollars again at an apparent impasse, Steven Mnuchin, the Treasury secretary, and Mark Meadows, the White House chief of staff, wrote to lawmakers on Sunday asking for action on a stand-alone bill that would provide additional funds for the program and allow small businesses to again apply for loans that will be forgiven if a certain number of workers are maintained. But Democrats have so far resisted approving stand-alone bills and in the Senate prevented a proposal that would have provided $350 billion in new aid from advancing earlier this year because they deemed it insufficient to address the economic and health havoc caused across the country by the pandemic. Because of the 60-vote threshold needed to approve procedural votes, the legislation will not pass without some Democratic support. Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and her top lieutenants spent the weekend criticizing the latest $1.8 trillion proposal Mr. Mnuchin put forward. “Are you giving haircuts or are you just chopping off heads?” Ms. Pelosi said on a private call with Democrats of the administration’s push to cut down the cost of the bill, according to one person on the call, who disclosed details of the discussion on condition of anonymity. “We really need to have an agreement, but we cannot have an agreement by just folding,” Ms. Pelosi added. “I don’t think our leverage has ever been greater than it is now.” With Mr. Trump calling on Twitter on Tuesday for negotiators to “go big or go home!!!” on the stimulus, Ms. Pelosi pushed back on the suggestion that she should accept anything less than the $2.2 trillion proposal House Democrats approved earlier this month. “I appreciate, shall we say, a couple people saying, Take it, take it, take it,” Ms. Pelosi said. “Take it? Take it? Even the president is saying, ‘Go big or go home.’” But the $1.8 trillion offer also faced additional resistance among the majority of Senate Republicans, who lashed out at top administration officials on Saturday for putting forward a counteroffer that they felt to be too expensive and veering toward catering too much to Democratic priorities. While Mr. McConnell did not release legislative text or offer additional details about what the Senate would vote on, it is likely to be much smaller than the $2.2 trillion stimulus package that House Democrats are pushing for and the $1.8 trillion framework Mr. Mnuchin has outlined. He also took care to underscore priorities for Senate Republicans in the weeks ahead of the election, noting that “unless Democrats block this aid for workers, we will have time to pass it before we proceed as planned to the pending Supreme Court nomination as soon as it is reported by the Judiciary Committee.” —

Dr. Fauci warns that a Trump ad ‘may turn off a lot of people’ by taking him out of context. Dr. Anthony S. Fauci stepped up criticism of a Trump ad that he said mischaracterized his comments on the White House coronavirus response. Credit... Pool photo by Al Drago Dr. Anthony S. Fauci insisted Tuesday that there was no “rift” between him and President Trump, even as he stepped up his criticism of the Trump campaign for quoting him “out of context” in a television ad praising the administration’s coronavirus response. “I have been a public servant, for five decades now and I have never either directly or indirectly endorsed any political candidate,” Dr. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease specialist, said in an interview, reiterating comments he made on CNN over the weekend. “That ad clearly implies strongly that I’m endorsing a political candidate, and I have not given them my permission to do that. And in addition to that, the quote that they took is completely out of context.” The Trump campaign released the new ad last week after the president was discharged from Walter Reed National Military Medical Center following treatment for Covid-19. “President Trump tackled the virus head on, as leaders should,” the ad declares, before switching to an interview in which Dr. Fauci said, “I can’t imagine that … anybody could be doing more.” Dr. Fauci said that comment was made “months and months ago” (in March, early on in the pandemic) in reference to the hard work of the White House coronavirus task force, when the group was “meeting literally seven days a week” and “knocking ourselves out.” He said he blamed the campaign, not “the president as a person,” but conceded he has little power to get the ad off the air. He said he has not contacted either the president or the campaign — “and I don’t want to contact them.” But he also warned that the ad could backfire. “I think if they keep doing that, and I make it clear that this is something that I’m not happy with, because I didn’t give permission, and that I would like them to stop, and they continue to do it,” he said, “they may turn off a lot of people.” The Biden campaign released an ad on Monday mocking the Trump campaign for the way it repurposed Dr. Fauci’s quote. The ad featured an obviously pasted-together montage of the president’s speeches, a few words at a time, in which he is made to say, “I am failing at managing the coronavirus outbreak.” Donald Trump is running TV ads taking Dr. Fauci out of context and without his permission.



So, here’s a message from the President in his own words. pic.twitter.com/WCYbIfrQLR — Joe Biden (@JoeBiden) October 12, 2020 In an interview with The Daily Beast, Dr. Fauci said the campaign was “in effect, harassing me” — a comment he told The New York Times he made “because I had heard that they were going to continue to do it with other ads, given that I have explicitly said I do not like that, and I don’t give them permission.” On Monday, Dr. Fauci had warned that President Trump’s plan to resume a full schedule of rallies when the virus is surging in much of the country was “asking for trouble.” He told CNN, “We’ve seen that when you have situations of congregate settings where there are a lot of people without masks, the data speak for themselves. It happens. And now is even more so a worse time to do that, because when you look at what’s going on in the United States, it’s really very troublesome.” He noted that many states were now seeing increases in positive tests and suggested that Americans should be “doubling down” on precautions rather than casting them aside. Most of the audience at Mr. Trumps packed rally near Orlando, Fla., Monday night was unmasked. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Facing a pandemic shortfall, an Ohio college cuts 18 majors. The Ohio Wesleyan University campus in 2009. Credit... Kevin J. Fitzsimons for The New York Times Ohio Wesleyan University is cutting 18 majors and consolidating several departments, reflecting the devastating impact the pandemic is having on the budgets of many colleges. The move, announced last week in an email to students, will save about $4 million annually and limit faculty layoffs to just one tenured position, the university’s president, Rock Jones, wrote. But it also will sharply reduce academic offerings at the university, which enrolls about 1,425 students. Black world studies and women and gender studies programs will be consolidated into a single “critical identity studies” department. Classics and modern foreign language will merge to form a new world languages department. Religion and philosophy will become a single department. And majors in comparative literature, Middle Eastern studies, urban studies, journalism, neuroscience and many other areas will be eliminated or phased out. The measures come as universities around the country confront the immense price being exacted by the virus, which has forced campuses to retool instruction, scale up health precautions, suspend sports programs and empty or retrofit dining areas and dorms. Like many small, private liberal arts colleges, Ohio Wesleyan was facing budget shortfalls even before the pandemic. Demographic shifts have decreased student populations in much of the country. The school had forecast a $7.5 million operating deficit for the 2020-21 academic year and was already reviewing cost-cutting measures in May when Mr. Jones announced the virus had added another $4.5 million in projected red ink. The current cost-cutting measures follow moves this spring to eliminate 44 non-teaching staff positions, end the university’s 1.5 percent matching retirement contribution and reduce regular retirement contributions from 10 percent to 8.7 percent, among other cutbacks. Additionally, the school offered an early retirement option that has since been taken by about 30 faculty members, according to a school spokesman. Ohio Wesleyan also shifted more money into its financial aid budget, eliminated a planned tuition increase and reduced the price of summer classes. In his email, Mr. Jones wrote that, in addressing costs now, the 178-year-old university is “far ahead of many institutions just beginning to re-examine their structure and operations in the midst of the pandemic” and will emerge “more focused, more efficient” and more affordable. —

Biden blasts Trump in South Florida, asking: ‘How many of you have been unable to hug your grandkids in the last seven months?’ Joseph R. Biden Jr. at New Castle Airport in Delaware before flying to Florida on Tuesday. Credit... Chang W. Lee/The New York Times PEMBROKE PINES, Fla. — Joseph R. Biden Jr. turned his attention on Tuesday to older Americans, making a case in South Florida that seniors were paying the price for the president’s poor handling of the coronavirus pandemic. “The only senior that Donald Trump cares about — the only senior — is senior Donald Trump,” Mr. Biden said in a speech at a community center in Pembroke Pines, a city in the vote-rich Democratic stronghold of Broward County. Older people are a crucial voting bloc in Florida, a haven for retirees, and they were an important part of President Trump’s winning coalition in 2016 across the nation’s battleground states. But waning support from seniors now poses a serious threat to the president’s re-election bid, and Mr. Biden’s pitch to them on Tuesday was his latest attempt to maximize his standing with those voters. Mr. Biden, who wore a mask during his speech, offered an unsparing critique of Mr. Trump’s management of the nation’s monthslong public health crisis, assailing the president over his response to the virus as well as his own behavior. “I prayed for his recovery when he got Covid, and I had hoped at least he’d come out of it somewhat chastened,” Mr. Biden said. “But what has he done? He’s just doubled down on the misinformation he did before.” He went on to say that Mr. Trump’s “reckless personal conduct since his diagnosis is unconscionable.” “The longer Donald Trump is president, the more reckless he seems to get,” Mr. Biden said. “Thank God we only have three weeks left to go.” And he alluded to the Rose Garden ceremony held at the White House last month for Mr. Trump’s Supreme Court nominee, Judge Amy Coney Barrett. Some of those in attendance, including Mr. Trump and the first lady, later tested positive for the virus. “While he throws super-spreader parties at the White House where Republicans hug each other without concern of the consequences, how many of you have been unable to hug your grandkids in the last seven months?” Mr. Biden said. He told the crowd that two of his grandchildren lived near his Delaware home, adding that he bribed them during socially-distanced visits with Häagen-Dazs bars. “I can’t hug them,” he said. “I can’t embrace them. And I’m luckier than most, because they’re nearby.” Patricia Mazzei reported from Pembroke Pines, and Thomas Kaplan from Washington. — Patricia Mazzei and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The virus hits foreign farmhands, challenging Canadians’ self-image. Image Migrant workers at a farm in Simcoe, Ontario, last month. Coronavirus infections among migrant farm workers in Canada are 11 times higher than among health workers. Credit... Brett Gundlock for The New York Times Outbreaks on farms in Canada have spurred national protests about the systemic vulnerability of migrant farm laborers, a population unknown to many Canadians until they began to fall ill at a rate 11 times that of health workers. Canadians pride themselves on a liberal immigration system welcoming to an array of ethnicities and nationalities, contrasting their attitude with what many see as xenophobia in the United States. The reality does not always match the rhetoric, but Canada encourages different groups to maintain their cultures, and an embrace of multiculturalism is enshrined in Canada’s charter and self-image. When other world leaders shunned refugees from Syria’s civil war, Prime Minister Justin Trudeau welcomed them in person, handing them winter coats. But in importing large numbers of seasonal farm laborers from abroad and offering them no path to residence or citizenship, Canada looks disturbingly un-Canadian to many of its people. Canada admits temporary workers who stay for most of a year but requires them to return home when their contracts end. As in the United States, farm workers live for months on their employers’ property, often in large bunkhouses where disease can spread easily. “In no other immigration category do you have people who come only from certain countries, are trapped in certain occupations, living only on their work sites and must absolutely leave the country at the end,” said Jenna Hennebry, the director of the International Migration Research Center at Wilfrid Laurier University in Waterloo, Ontario. The virus outbreaks prompted the Mexican government to pause sending workers to Canada for a week in June. In response, Mr. Trudeau said: “We should always take advantage of moments of crisis to reflect. Can we change the system to do better?” Since then, his government has announced 59 million Canadian dollars — about $45 million — for improved farm housing, sanitation and inspections. But it has not offered the cure that advocates for migrant workers demand: a path to citizenship. —

18 members of Tunisia’s Parliament test positive as the country sees a dramatic spike in cases. Tunisia’s health minister, Faouzi Mehdi, left, during a news conference with Interior Minister Taoufik Charfeddine in Tunis earlier this month. The country has seen a sharp uptick in virus cases in recent weeks. Credit... Mohamed Messara/EPA, via Shutterstock Eighteen members of Tunisia’s Parliament have tested positive for the virus, the body’s doctor, Maher Ayadi, announced on Tuesday. Several cases among lawmakers were reported following a full parliamentary session on Oct. 2, one of only two such meetings held such July. A number of lawmakers had announced that they tested positive on Facebook. Tunisia has seen a sharp spike in virus cases in recent days. Of the 32,556 cases reported since the start of the outbreak, more than 10,000 were reported in the last seven days, according to a Times database. The country had been an exception in the region, reporting very few cases at the start of the pandemic. Tunisia quickly imposed a strict lockdown, including a nationwide curfew and the closure of international borders for almost two months. But after reopening the borders in June, the country began to report new cases linked to international travel. The authorities imposed a two-week nightly curfew in several cities last week to halt the uptick. Only a few hundred intensive care beds are available throughout Tunisia, and doctors have expressed concern that the health care system is at risk of being overloaded. In a meeting of officials tasked with fighting the coronavirus on Tuesday, Prime Minister Hichem Mechichi announced that people who do not wear masks in public spaces will be fined starting this weekend. He added that it was important to balance health and economic concerns as the country confronts the surge in cases, and to “help every sector over the economic crisis.” —

After a 7-month wait, one tourist got Machu Picchu all to himself. The Machu Picchu complex, the Inca fortress in the southeastern Andes of Peru, last year. Credit... Pablo Porciuncula Brune/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images Jesse Katayama had planned to end a journey around the world 8,000 feet above sea level at Machu Picchu, the sprawling 15th-century Inca citadel high in the Andes Mountains. Then the coronavirus happened, stranding Mr. Katayama, a 26-year-old Japanese citizen, in Peru and shutting down tourism sites as a lockdown was imposed across the country. On Sunday, after a wait of seven months, Mr. Katayama finally got to visit the UNESCO world heritage site. And aside from a few guides, he got it all to himself. “After the lockdown, the first man to visit Machu Picchu is meeeeeee,” he wrote in a post on Instagram that included photos of him with a park representative. Alejandro Neyra, Peru’s culture minister, said in a virtual news conference on Monday that Mr. Katayama had been granted special access to the site in recognition of his patience. “He had come to Peru with the dream of being able to enter,” Mr. Neyra said. “The Japanese citizen has entered together with our head of the park so that he can do this before returning to his country.” Before the pandemic, Machu Picchu welcomed thousands of visitors a day. Tourists typically have to apply months in advance for permits to enter an Inca trail that leads to the ancient fortress. — Tiffany May and