--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/11/14/world/14virus-briefing-useurolede/14virus-briefing-useurolede-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Covid-19 Live Updates: Europe Faces a Resurgence of Virus Cases and Restrictions 
description: > 
  ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Europe Faces a Resurgence of Virus Cases and Restrictions London is tightening restrictions, France imposed a curfew on Paris and other major cities, and other countries are taking similar steps as record caseloads fill hospitals.London will face tighter restrictions as Europe confronts a new spike in virus cases.— Karen Zraick, Zach Montague, Mark Landler, Marc Santora, Aurelien Breeden, Anna Schaverien, Christopher F. Schuetze andU.S. virus cases are climbing toward a third peak.President Trump says he is now immune to coronavirus Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times President Trump might want to wait a bit before he puts on a Superman T-shirt.The experimental monoclonal antibodies Mr. Trump was given are synthetic, and they will most likely wane in a matter of weeks. 
date: 1602766544.1269846 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 15, 2020, 7:53 a.m. ET Oct. 15, 2020, 7:53 a.m. ET Covid-19 Live Updates: Europe Faces a Resurgence of Virus Cases and Restrictions London is tightening restrictions, France imposed a curfew on Paris and other major cities, and other countries are taking similar steps as record caseloads fill hospitals. RIGHT NOW French officials’ homes are searched as part of an investigation into the government’s response to the pandemic.

London will face tighter restrictions as Europe confronts a new spike in virus cases. A cafe in Paris on Wednesday. Starting on Saturday, the French authorities will impose a curfew from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. in the Paris region. Credit... Chesnot/Getty Images London will join other big cities in Europe, including Paris and Berlin, in tightening restrictions to stem a rapidly rising second wave of coronavirus cases in Europe. A ban on people mixing indoors in the British capital will begin after midnight on Friday as London moves up into tier 2 — “high alert” level — in England’s new three-level virus restriction system, the care minister, Helen Whately, told London lawmakers in a call on Thursday. People will also be discouraged from using public transportation. The increased measures will also apply to the city of York, in northern England, as well as parts of central and southeastern England. Rapidly increasing caseloads across Europe are raising fears of another surge as winter approaches and people around the world chafe under pandemic restrictions that impede their daily lives — and their livelihoods. The weekly number of new Covid-19 cases in Europe is now at its highest point since the start of the pandemic, a top official with the World Health Organization said on Thursday. The number of confirmed cases in Europe rose by a million to seven million in just 10 days, Hans Kluge, the W.H.O.’s regional director for Europe, told reporters, and the number of daily deaths had passed 1,000 for the first time. “Does it mean we are back to mid-March? No, we are not,” Dr. Kluge said. “Although we record two to three times more cases compared to the April peak, we still observe five times less deaths.” Dr. Kluge recommended tighter rules on social gatherings, which European officials have already been devising as part of targeted restrictions that are meant to avoid the type of blanket lockdowns that paralyzed economic activity in the spring. On Wednesday, President Emmanuel Macron of France announced that, starting on Saturday, the authorities would impose a curfew from 9 p.m. to 6 a.m. in the Paris region and around eight other major cities. The curfews will run for at least four weeks. The measure is part of a renewed state of emergency that allows the national government to restrict public gatherings and movement countrywide. It was first declared in the spring but had ended in July. “We need this — and if we don’t want to take harsher measures in 15 days, or three weeks, or one month, we have to do it and comply with it,” Mr. Macron said. The measure is to be applied in the regions of Paris, Grenoble, Lille, Lyon, Aix-en-Provence and Marseille, Montpellier, Rouen, St.-Etienne and Toulouse, affecting roughly 18 million residents. In London on Thursday, the mayor, Sadiq Khan, addressed the coming tightening of restrictions in the city: “We’re at a critical moment in our fight against COVID-19 in London,” he said. “Nobody wants to see more restrictions but it is deemed necessary in order to protect Londoners.” In Germany on Wednesday, Chancellor Angela Merkel and state governors agreed to nationwide restrictions on social gatherings and domestic travel, in response to a rise in infections. Germany recorded a record 6,638 new cases on Wednesday. “I am convinced that what we do — and what we don’t do — in these coming days and weeks will be decisive in how we get through this pandemic,” Ms. Merkel at a news conference. In 10 days, she said, the authorities will discuss if stricter guidelines are needed. There is also growing concern about the damage a second virus wave could sow in the formerly Communist countries of Central Europe, many of which have weak health care systems facing critical shortages of doctors and nurses and inadequate testing programs. In the Czech Republic, virus deaths reached 2.9 per 100,000 people for the seven days ending Tuesday. And in Russia, which reported its largest daily increase in infections on Wednesday, President Vladimir V. Putin sought refuge from the torrent of bad news by announcing that the Russian government had approved a second vaccine. The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies on Wednesday urged European governments to take action quickly to protect those vulnerable to the virus, and to mitigate its disastrous economic effects. “We know it is a very difficult moment which requires difficult decisions: solving the health crisis will help solve the economic and social one,” said Dr. Emanuele Capobianco, head of health and care for the organization. — Karen Zraick, Zach Montague, Mark Landler, Marc Santora, Aurelien Breeden, Anna Schaverien, Christopher F. Schuetze and

U.S. virus cases are climbing toward a third peak. The number of new coronavirus cases in the United States is surging once again after growth slowed in late summer. While the geography of the pandemic is now shifting to the Midwest and to more rural areas, cases are trending upward in most states, many of which are setting weekly records for new cases. April 10 31,709 new cases (7-day avg.) July 19 66,690 Oct. 13 52,156 March 1 New cases per day in the United States Oct. 13 April 10 31,709 new cases (7-day avg.) July 19 66,690 Oct. 13 52,156 March 1 New cases per day in the United States Oct. 13 April 10 31,709 new cases (7-day avg.) July 19 66,690 Oct. 13 52,156 March 1 New cases per day in the U.S. Oct. 13 April 10 31,709 new cases (7-day avg.) July 19 66,690 Oct. 13 52,156 March 1 New cases per day in the United States Oct. 13 Taken alone, case counts are an imperfect measure of the pandemic’s severity, and it is difficult to compare the current numbers with earlier points in the U.S. outbreak when testing was less widespread. But other critical measures are showing a resurgence, too. And the continuing spread of cases to new areas of the country suggests the outbreak is far from over. “We are headed in the wrong direction, and that’s reflected not only in the number of new cases but also in test positivity and the number of hospitalizations,” said Caitlin Rivers, an epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins University. “Together, I think these three indicators give a very clear picture that we are seeing increased transmission in communities across the country.” The rise since mid-September has been especially profound in the Midwest and Mountain West, where hospitals are filling up and rural areas are seeing staggering outbreaks. The regions are home to almost all of the metro areas with the country’s worst outbreaks right now. “We are starting from a much higher plateau than we were before the summer wave,” Dr. Rivers said. “It concerns me that we might see even more cases during the next peak than we did during the summer.” —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

As the virus spread, private briefings from the Trump administration fueled a stock sell-off. Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council, boasted in February that the coronavirus was contained in the United States and that “it’s pretty close to airtight.” His private message was more ambiguous. Credit... Anna Moneymaker for The New York Times On the afternoon of Feb. 24, President Trump declared on Twitter that the coronavirus was “very much under control” in the United States, but hours earlier, senior members of the president’s economic team, privately addressing board members of the conservative Hoover Institution, were less confident. Tomas J. Philipson, a senior economic adviser to the president, told the group he could not yet estimate the effects of the virus on the American economy. To some in the group, the implication was that an outbreak could prove worse than Mr. Philipson and other Trump administration advisers were signaling in public at the time. The next day, board members — many of them Republican donors — got another taste of government uncertainty from Larry Kudlow, the director of the National Economic Council. Hours after he had boasted on CNBC that the virus was contained in the United States and “it’s pretty close to airtight,” Mr. Kudlow delivered a more ambiguous private message. He asserted that the virus was “contained in the U.S., to date, but now we just don’t know,” according to a document describing the sessions obtained by The New York Times. The document, written by a hedge fund consultant who attended the three-day gathering of Hoover’s board, was stark. “What struck me,” the consultant wrote, was that nearly every official he heard from raised the virus “as a point of concern, totally unprovoked.” The consultant’s assessment quickly spread through parts of the investment world. U.S. stocks were already spiraling because of a warning from a federal public health official that the virus was likely to spread, but traders spotted the immediate significance: The president’s aides appeared to be giving wealthy party donors an early warning of a potentially impactful contagion at a time when Mr. Trump was publicly insisting that the threat was nonexistent. Interviews with eight people who either received copies of the memo or were briefed on aspects of it as it spread among investors in New York and elsewhere provide a glimpse of how elite traders had access to information from the administration that helped them gain financial advantage during a chaotic three days when global markets were teetering. To many of the investors who received or heard about the memo, it was the first significant sign of skepticism among Trump administration officials about their ability to contain the virus. It also provided a hint of the fallout that was to come, said one major investor who was briefed on it: the upending of daily life for the entire country. “Short everything,” was the reaction of the investor, using the Wall Street term for betting on the idea that the stock prices of companies would soon fall. — Kate Kelly and

Trump says he is now immune. Not so fast, experts warn. President Trump says he is now immune to coronavirus Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times President Trump might want to wait a bit before he puts on a Superman T-shirt. After recovering from Covid-19, the president declared that he was now immune to the disease caused by the coronavirus, and was said to have talked about wearing a superhero shirt under his dress shirt. But if Mr. Trump is in fact now immune to the virus, he may not remain so, scientists warn. That’s because the treatment he received may have prevented his body from making the antibodies necessary for long-term protection. The experimental monoclonal antibodies Mr. Trump was given are synthetic, and they will most likely wane in a matter of weeks. Indeed, unless they are replenished, Mr. Trump may be left more susceptible to the virus than most patients who had Covid-19 and recovered, several experts warned. There is another wrinkle for the president. In addition to the monoclonal antibodies he was given, Mr. Trump also received steroid treatment. That suppresses the body’s natural immune response — including the production of antibodies of its own. “He may be not protected the second time around, especially because he didn’t develop his own antibodies,” said Akiko Iwasaki, an immunologist at Yale University. —

Global Roundup Singapore and Hong Kong agree to set up a travel bubble, and other news from around the world. In Hong Kong on Thursday. Credit... Kin Cheung/Associated Press Officials in Singapore and Hong Kong said Thursday that they had reached a preliminary agreement to establish a travel bubble between the two Asian financial centers, allowing travelers of all kinds to bypass quarantine. Under the agreement, travelers must test negative for the virus and fly only on designated flights. Officials did not say when the bubble, which was first reported by The South China Morning Post, would begin. Travelers from Singapore would be the first allowed to enter Hong Kong since the semiautonomous Chinese territory barred all nonresidents in March; residents returning to Hong Kong are required to quarantine for 14 days. Singapore currently requires travelers from Hong Kong to quarantine for seven days after arrival. “Both our cities have low incidence of Covid-19 cases and have put in place robust mechanisms to manage and control Covid-19,” Singapore’s travel minister, Ong Ye Kung, said in a statement. Hong Kong’s secretary for commerce and economic development, Edward Yau, called the agreement “a milestone in our efforts to resume normalcy while fighting against the long-drawn battle of Covid-19.” Singapore and Hong Kong have both been reporting daily new cases in the single or double digits since late August. Efforts to establish reciprocal travel bubbles in Asia and other parts of the world have been halting as case numbers fluctuate and new outbreaks emerge. Starting Friday, Australia will waive quarantine requirements for travelers from New Zealand, which recently stamped out the virus for a second time, though New Zealand will still require quarantine for travelers arriving from Australia. Singapore has also lifted restrictions on general visitors from Brunei, Vietnam, New Zealand and Australia except for the state of Victoria, the center of the outbreak there. But all four of those countries are still closed to almost all foreigners, and in the case of Brunei and Australia residents must apply for permission to leave the country as well. In other global developments: Two officials in Qingdao, China , have been fired amid a new virus outbreak there, the city government said on Thursday. The director of the health commission and the president of the Qingdao Chest Hospital are under investigation after six confirmed infections and six asymptomatic cases were linked to the hospital. The new cases, the first local transmissions China had reported in almost two months, prompted orders to test all of Qingdao’s 9.5 million residents over five days. Officials said Thursday that none of the test results had come back positive.

Seven months after screens went dark, cinemas reopened Thursday in much of India , The Associated Press reported, with mostly old titles on the marquee. September was a particularly bad month for India, which saw weeks averaging more than 90,000 cases a day. Cases seem to be slowing: the seven-day average is now more than 65,000 per day.

Queen Elizabeth II of Britain made her first engagement outside of palace grounds in seven months on Thursday, joining her grandson, Prince William, on a visit to a military research facility that helped investigate the 2018 nerve agent attack on a Russian former spy in Salisbury, England. Since March, the queen, 94, has carried out her official duties at her palace and royal residences or remotely via video call or telephone. — Tiffany May, Jennifer Jett and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story