--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://nypost.com/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2020/10/pelosi-4.jpg?quality=90&strip=all&w=1200 
title: > 
  COVID-19 stimulus negotiations plod on as election approaches 
description: > 
  Coronavirus relief negotiations continue to advance at a glacial pace as the presidential election looms in just 15 days and COVID-19 cases spike around the country.A deal needs to be reached in the coming days so the package has a chance to pass Congress before Americans head to the polls on Nov. 3.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on Saturday he plans to have the Senate vote on a $300 billion “skinny” stimulus package and a Paycheck Protection Program package for struggling businesses.“Republicans do not agree that nothing is better than something for working families,” McConnell said in a statement.At stake is expanded unemployment insurance, the paycheck protection program, funding for broke state governments, and $1,200 stimulus checks. 
date: 1603177266.1067934 
--- 
<div><p>Coronavirus relief negotiations continue to advance at a glacial pace as the presidential election looms in just 15 days and COVID-19 cases <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/09/28/covid-19-cases-up-in-21-states-as-model-predicts-huge-surge/">spike around the country</a>.</p>
<p>House Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D. Calif) and Treasury Secretary Steve Mnuchin, the deal&#8217;s chief negotiators, spoke for an hour on Monday but their months-long near-daily discussions have so far <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/10/06/trump-calls-top-republicans-to-talk-covid-19-stimulus-legislation/">failed to yield an agreement</a> about how much should be spent on relief.</p>
<p>A deal needs <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/10/18/pelosi-gives-white-house-48-hours-to-agree-to-stimulus-deal/">to be reached in the coming days</a>&#160;so the package has a chance to pass Congress before Americans head to the polls on Nov. 3.</p>
<p>On Monday afternoon, Pelosi spokesman Drew Hammill said the pair &#8220;continued to narrow their differences&#8221; and revealed the speaker had directed senior Democratic lawmakers to work with their Republican counterparts.</p>
<p>&#8220;The Speaker continues to hope that, by the end of the day Tuesday, we will have clarity on whether we will be able to pass a bill before the election,&#8221; Hammill <a href="https://twitter.com/Drew_Hammill/status/1318284698397872128" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">wrote on Twitter</a>.</p>
<p>Pelosi is under mounting political pressure to accept the various offers presented by President Trump&#8217;s White House after House Democrats&#8217; enormous $3 trillion aid package was <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/05/13/some-democrats-concede-3t-house-coronavirus-bill-is-doa/">defeated in Congress</a> five months ago.</p>
<p>CNN anchor Wolf Blitzer grilled Pelosi <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/10/13/nancy-pelosi-calls-wolf-blitzer-a-gop-apologist-in-on-air-spat/">in a fiery interview</a> last week where he pressed the 80-year-old speaker on why she wouldn&#8217;t accept a $1.8 trillion package offered by Mnuchin.</p>
<p>On Monday, White House chief of staff Mark Meadows said he was hopeful a deal could be reached in the next 48 hours but said Senate Republicans had been &#8220;very vocal&#8221; about lack of support for a $1.8 billion package.</p>
<p>&#8220;There are some in the Senate that would support it. Whether there&#8217;s enough votes to get to the 60-vote threshold, that&#8217;s up to Leader McConnell,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p><a href="https://nypost.com/2020/10/17/senate-to-vote-on-skinny-covid-19-relief-bill-and-ppp-funds/">Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell</a> said on Saturday he plans to have the Senate vote on a $300 billion &#8220;skinny&#8221; stimulus package and a Paycheck Protection Program package for struggling businesses.</p>
<p>&#8220;Republicans do not agree that nothing is better than something for working families,&#8221; McConnell said in a statement.</p>
<p>It&#8217;s unclear if the bills will pass the Senate after Democrats <a href="https://nypost.com/2020/09/10/dems-block-gop-covid-19-bill-that-included-unemployment-relief/">blocked a similar package last month</a> which would have included funds for people left unemployed by the pandemic.</p>
<p>In <a href="https://www.speaker.gov/newsroom/101820-0" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a statement on Saturday</a>, Pelosi griped about the Trump administration&#8217;s approach to testing, their refusal to expand child care provisions, and the fact that they hadn&#8217;t committed more funding for states and local governments.</p>
<p>But Meadows pushed back on this characterization and said Pelosi was being &#8220;rigid in her negotiation&#8221; claiming a deal could have been reached weeks ago.</p>
<p>&#8220;It&#8217;s her way or the highway. It&#8217;s all or nothing. The American people don&#8217;t understand that,&#8221; he said, adding that Trump had directed his deal-makers to &#8220;engage&#8221; with the speaker and he was &#8220;hopeful&#8221; consensus could be reached this week.</p>
<p>At stake is expanded unemployment insurance, the paycheck protection program, funding for broke state governments, and $1,200 stimulus checks.</p>
<p>The respiratory bug has killed 220,000 Americans, infected 8.19 million others, and shuttered large swaths of the US economy, leaving tens of millions of people out of work.</p>
			</div>