--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/16/nyregion/00nyvirus-catholic1/00nyvirus-catholic1-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Cuomo’s Virus Crackdown Angers Catholics, Who Say They’re Singled Out 
description: > 
  Mr. Cuomo’s fraught dealings with the church were preceded by a similarly antagonistic relationship between his father, the late Gov.Mario M. Cuomo, and church leadership.Mario Cuomo also supported abortion rights and was threatened with excommunication.And if they’re not, should they be?” Mario Cuomo asked in a famed 1984 speech at Notre Dame.“It’s what one does in the fury of the storm. 
date: 1603146966.7752028 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">In the governor&#8217;s recently released memoir, he wrote that he has had &#8220;issues with the hierarchy of the Catholic Church&#8221; and suggested that the church &#8220;never forgave me&#8221; for his push to legalize same-sex marriage.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Mr. Cuomo&#8217;s fraught dealings with the church were preceded by a similarly antagonistic relationship between his father, the late Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, and church leadership. Mario Cuomo also supported abortion rights and was threatened with excommunication. &#8220;It hurt my father deeply,&#8221; Andrew Cuomo wrote in his new book, noting that &#8220;these were old and deep wounds.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">At the same time, Mario Cuomo gained fans inside the church with his staunch opposition to the death penalty and grappled intellectually with issues of how much to allow his religious beliefs to inform his politics.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">&#8220;Where does the one end and other begin? Or are the two divided at all? And if they&#8217;re not, should they be?&#8221; Mario Cuomo asked in <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="http://archives.nd.edu/research/texts/cuomo.htm" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a famed 1984 speech at Notre Dame</a>. &#8220;Hard questions.&#8221;</p><p></p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Decades later, Andrew Cuomo admits to similar inner conflict. He has been known to lean into religion at times as well, particularly during the coronavirus crisis, quoting the Bible and offering &#8220;thoughts and prayers&#8221; to the dead. Last week, he unveiled a statute of Mother Cabrini, the nun who died in 1917 after decades of caring for the sick and poor, praising her work and striving for a spiritual tone.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">&#8220;We all know that these are challenging times, but we also know that in the book of life, it is not what one does when the sun is shining that tests our mettle,&#8221; the governor said. &#8220;It&#8217;s what one does in the fury of the storm. And that&#8217;s where we are today.&#8221;</p></div>