--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/GettyImages-904599412.jpg?w=600 
title: > 
  Customer experience and digital transformation concepts are merging during the pandemic – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  Customer experience and digital transformation are two terms we’ve been hearing about for years, but have often remained nebulous in many organizations — something to aspire to perhaps, but not take completely seriously.Yet the pandemic has been a forcing event for both concepts, thrusting the ideas front and center.Even though building a positive customer experience has never been completely about digital, at a time where it’s difficult to interact with customers in person, the digital side of it has taken new urgency.At that point, digital transformation became customer experience’s buddy when other ways of contacting one another have been severely limited.The cloud plays a big role in the digital transformation process, and for the last decade, we have seen companies make a slow but steady shift to the cloud. 
keywords: > 
  pandemic, companies, techcrunch, weve, interact, concepts, cloud, digital, merging, transformation, customer, ways, experience, customers 
date: 1603386704.8625174 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary"><a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/03/19/even-in-the-age-of-covid-19-you-need-to-stay-focused-on-the-customer/">Customer experience</a> and <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2016/01/31/digital-transformation-requires-total-organizational-commitment/">digital transformation</a> are two terms we&#8217;ve been hearing about for years, but have often remained nebulous in many organizations &#8212; something to aspire to perhaps, but not take completely seriously. Yet the pandemic has been a forcing event for both concepts, thrusting the ideas front and center.</p>
<p>Suddenly startups that help with either of these concepts are seeing rising demand, even in a year with an overall difficult economic climate. If you are fortunate enough to be helping companies digitize a process or improve how customers interact with companies, you may be seeing increased interest from customers and potential acquirers (and this was true even before this year). A case in point is <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/10/12/twilios-3-2b-segment-acquisition-about-helping-developers-build-data-fueled-apps/">Twilio acquiring Segment for $3.2 billion</a> recently to help build data-fueled applications to interact with customers.</p>
<p>Even though building a positive customer experience has never been completely about digital, at a time where it&#8217;s difficult to interact with customers in person, the digital side of it has taken new urgency. As COVID-19 took hold this year, businesses, large and small, suddenly realized the only way to connect to their customers was digitally. At that point, digital transformation became customer experience&#8217;s buddy when other ways of contacting one another have been severely limited.</p>
<h2>Pandemic brings changes</h2>
<p>Just about every startup founder I talk to these days, along with bigger, more established companies, talk about how the pandemic has pushed companies to digitally transform much faster than they would have without COVID.</p>
<p>Brent Leary, founder at CRM Essentials, says that the pandemic has certainly expedited the need to bring these two big ideas together and created opportunities as that happens. &#8220;The coronavirus, as terrible as it has been in so many ways to so many people, has created opportunities for companies to build direct-to-consumer (D2C) digital pipelines that can make them stronger companies despite the current hardships,&#8221; Leary told TechCrunch.</p>
<p>The cloud plays a big role in the digital transformation process, and for the last decade, we have seen companies make a slow but steady shift to the cloud. When you have a situation like we&#8217;ve had with the coronavirus, it speeds everything up. As it turns out, being in the cloud helps you move faster because you don&#8217;t have to worry about all of the overhead of running a business critical application as the SaaS vendors take care of all that for you.</p><p class="extra-crunch-offer-container"></p>			</div>