--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8db75ec21cfb0019468c93?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Cycles of disruption: AlixPartners' CEO lays out what has separated winners from losers in 2020 
description: > 
  Industry disruption, rather than economic cycles, is affecting clients that need to make strategy decisions, AlixPartners CEO Simon Freakley said at Business Insider's Global Trends Festival.The pandemic has upended the economy in 2020, but one restructuring firm leader says disruption in specific industries has a greater impact on a company's performance than the economic cycle.Even companies without a clear online strategy could succeed during the pandemic as long as they were working to find ways to overcome industry disruption, Freakley explained.Primark, an Irish fast-fashion retailer, has continued to do well despite store closures earlier this year and having no online strategy."One doesn't have to have an online strategy to be successful, but one has to have a defining strategy," Freakley said. 
date: 1603170144.2596831 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Industry disruption, rather than economic cycles, is affecting clients that need to make strategy decisions, AlixPartners CEO Simon Freakley said at <a href="https://trendsfestival.com/en/schedule.html">Business Insider's Global Trends Festival.</a></li>
<li>The retail industry is one of the biggest losers of the pandemic because it was already experiencing disruption, although some retailers have found success during COVID-19 by adjusting their business models and offering more online shopping.</li>
<li>The upcoming US election is creating more economic uncertainty that will affect industries already being disrupted.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>The pandemic has upended the economy in 2020, but one restructuring firm leader says disruption in specific industries has a greater impact on a company's performance than the economic cycle.</p><p>"What we realized was that, actually, the cycles of disruption were not only more regular than the economic cycles, they were more profound," said Simon Freakley, CEO of AlixPartners, a consulting firm known for its work in the restructuring space as well as economic consulting, internal investigations, and performance improvement.</p><p><strong>Read more:</strong><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-earn-six-figures-as-a-turnaround-consultant-alix-partners">Here's how to land a 6-figure job as a turnaround consultant, one of the most in-demand positions during the coronavirus pandemic</a></p><p>Speaking at <a href="https://trendsfestival.com/en/schedule.html">Business Insider Global Trends Festival</a><strong>,</strong> Freakley said that even though the pandemic has affected the entire economy, it has produced winners and losers because it furthered negative disruption already happening in certain industries, like brick-and-mortar retail, while creating opportunities for others that have spent years evolving their business offerings.</p><p>For example, he said, companies like J. Crew and JCPenney that filed for bankruptcy during the pandemic have been struggling for years, while companies like Walmart are doing well because they had already been working to improve their online offerings to compete with Amazon.</p><p>Even companies without a clear online strategy could succeed during the pandemic as long as they were working to find ways to overcome industry disruption, Freakley explained. Primark, an Irish fast-fashion retailer, has continued to do well despite store closures earlier this year and having no online strategy. Instead, the retailer has stuck to providing low-priced, trendy inventory in stores.</p><p>"One doesn't have to have an online strategy to be successful, but one has to have a defining strategy," Freakley said.</p><p>AlixPartners' turnaround and restructuring group has been <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/alixpartners-is-expanding-to-handle-coronanvirus-restructuring-work-2020-10">extra busy since the onset of the pandemic</a> &#8212; the team usually makes up about 20% of the business, but this year it's so far accounting for 30%, Business Insider previously reported.&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<h2><strong>How client conversations have evolved during the pandemic&#160;</strong></h2><p>Freakley said that in the early days of the pandemic, the firm counseled clients that wanted to better understand their liquidity position, including large, successful Fortune 100 companies that had never done a cash-flow analysis before.</p><p><strong>Read more:</strong> <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/alixpartners-is-expanding-to-handle-coronanvirus-restructuring-work-2020-10">Turnaround consultant AlixPartners is 'recruiting like crazy'. It's restructuring group leaders lay out how the firm is prepping for an influx of work and the benefits of virtual war rooms.</a></p><p>After companies worked through any immediate liquidity issues, the conversation shifted to how companies should strategize to survive the pandemic in a way that made sense for their industries, Freakley said. Keeping the focus on industry disruption is important because outside disruption is always there and always changing &#8212; for the foreseeable future, the pandemic will shape the way the economy runs, but the upcoming US presidential election is also factoring into companies' business strategies.</p><p>"There's all of these dangling questions that we're all trying to size up and answer," he said. "We don't know all of the answers and, indeed at this stage, we don't know all of the questions. But one thing it has done for us is really make us imagine is what the future of work might look like and how we capture some of the gains and efficiencies."</p>
                  </div>