--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/rugby-union/2020/10/18/TELEMMGLPICT000242182059_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqPNWwDyPbFwP-inmmdjUPH8RERdCilWm4TK0cx62pGGA.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Damning Exeter Chiefs as 'monotonous' is lazy and unfair 
description: > 
  Nearly every team, including Racing last Saturday, at some point try to score using this bludgeoning tactic.Unfortunately, because Exeter have become so good at scoring with short drives, and almost no team can stop them, lazy analysts compartmentalise them and ignore anything they do that does not fit this narrative.Finn Russell’s artistry is sublime and even casual rugby watchers can marvel at its inventiveness and thrills.If you want only tries that are scored by open-style rugby, watch rugby sevens.Creating the sort of club Exeter have become is an extraordinary feat and the humility and realism shown by Baxter and his players is exemplary. 
date: 1603097806.1758704 
--- 
<div><p>So why has this point gained traction? Nearly every team, including Racing last Saturday, at some point try to score using this bludgeoning tactic. Unfortunately, because Exeter have become so good at scoring with short drives, and almost no team can stop them, lazy analysts compartmentalise them and ignore anything they do that does not fit this narrative.</p>
<p>Flowing, laissez-faire rugby is easy on the eye. Finn Russell&#8217;s artistry is sublime and even casual rugby watchers can marvel at its inventiveness and thrills. His dexterity and fleet-footedness are apparent, but that does not mean there is not huge technical ability required to successfully deliver the remorseless short drives at which Exeter excel. The muscular skills of players such as Jonny Gray and Luke Cowan-Dickie should not be traduced because watchers do not understand how difficult they are to perfect.</p>
<p>Everyone involved with Exeter&#8217;s deserved victory should make light of any criticism. What the club have achieved over the past decade, and how it has been achieved, should be a template for other clubs, not a source of disparagement. Combing local players, who root the club in the community, and star players who give an extra dimension, is what Leicester Tigers did for many years and what they are desperately trying to recreate after losing their way. The fact that Exeter&#8217;s piano shifters are every bit as important as their piano players reflects rugby&#8217;s unique selling point, and long may it be thus. If you want only tries that are scored by open-style rugby, watch rugby sevens.</p>
<p>Even if you simply prefer the sort of rugby played by Racing, what you cannot deny is the gutsiness showed by Exeter in the last 10 minutes of the game. They resisted the momentum Racing had going into final part of the match, which is difficult in any event. To do this when you are reduced to 14 men was remarkable and showed Exeter&#8217;s sodality, something you cannot buy, however much money you throw into a club.</p>
<p>The defensive effort was supreme, and whenever their first-up defence was breached, Exeter found the energy to scramble and prevent Racing adding one final try that would have won them the game. Shuddering, impetus-stopping hits, and frantic, last-gasp tackles are also part of rugby and they require physical bravery, as well as skill.</p>
<p>It is a great pity that Exeter&#8217;s fans could not share this extraordinary win. They will give short shrift to any carping about their style of play and they are right to do so. Creating the sort of club Exeter have become is an extraordinary feat and the humility and realism shown by Baxter and his players is exemplary.</p>
<p>Would that this government could replicate Exeter&#8217;s competence. Their &#8220;boring&#8221; substance is far preferable to superficial style, even if it is delivered with a West Country drawl, rather than in Latin.</p>
</div>