--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/18/opinion/18petrow/18petrow-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Dating During the Coronavirus Pandemic Means Fear. Again. - The New York Times 
description: > 
  The year was 1988, still early in the AIDS epidemic, when about one in two gay men in the city had been infected with H.I.V.And then there was the stigma: gay men with H.I.V.Looking for love by definition means taking chances, but pandemics are terrible times to take them.By the time Bob and I became bedmates and boyfriends, he’d disclosed that he was H.I.V.We engaged in what was first known as “safe” sex but later became known as “safer” sex because nothing is absolute. 
date: 1603072116.8369336 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Bob and I stood on his deck of his San Francisco flat, with the bright lights of the city behind us and the first wisps of the summer fog creeping in. The attraction was palpable. His finger traced the outline of my nose &#8212; and then we kissed. It was our first &#8212; romantic and passionate. And more: fraught with the unknown. The year was 1988, still early in the AIDS epidemic, when about one in two gay men in the city had been infected with H.I.V. We had not yet had the talk (&#8220;Do you know your status?&#8221;).</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">There was still so much we didn&#8217;t know then. A scant two years before, the surgeon general had ruled out &#8220;casual&#8221; modes of transmission &#8212; like mosquito bites, toilet seats, swimming pools and kissing. But fears lingered, especially with no vaccine or treatment, and a frighteningly high death rate. And then there was the stigma: gay men with H.I.V. were ostracized, fired from our jobs and abandoned by our families. Intimacy became woven with fear, kiss by kiss.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">And now here we are again.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">I never imagined I&#8217;d live to witness another such viral threat. At the time I met Bob, I was young and on a quest for my first big love; today I am divorced and again seeking connection. Looking for love by definition means taking chances, but pandemics are terrible times to take them.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">By the time Bob and I became bedmates and boyfriends, he&#8217;d disclosed that he was H.I.V. positive (and I was not). We engaged in what was first known as &#8220;safe&#8221; sex but later became known as &#8220;safer&#8221; sex because nothing is absolute. Still, every sexual encounter required some degree of vigilance. I remember our anxiety-ridden conversations. &#8220;How safe is oral sex?&#8221; &#8220;What do we do if the condom breaks?&#8221; For me, then 31, the plague slowed my coming out; it reinforced notions that homosexuality was &#8220;bad&#8221;; and it bred a firestorm of fear about sex and intimacy that took years, and much therapy in my case, to work through.</p></div>