--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://radio.foxnews.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/nypost-hunter-biden-joe-biden-leaked-emails.png 
title: > 
  Dave Rubin On Twitter, Facebook Censorship Of New York Post Over Hunter Biden Exposé 
description: > 
  Dave Rubin, Host of The Rubin Report & author of DON'T BURN THIS BOOK: Thinking for Yourself in an Age of Unreason spoke with Fox News Radio's Guy Benson about Twitter and Facebook's censorship of the New York Post, Biden exposé.The idea that something has to be 100 percent factually true and verified by an endless amount of verifiable sources to be put on Twitter is crazy.And, you know, a third party said that this happened, this happened, this happened.Because this idea that Hunter Biden was getting 50 grand, but from barisma to be a consultant on a project that he knew nothing about.This is pointed at the Democrats, at the left, at the left, at Biden, where the Russia stuff was pointed at Trump." 
date: 1603074135.92563 
--- 
<blockquote><p>Dave Rubin, Host of The Rubin Report &amp; author of DON'T BURN THIS BOOK: Thinking for Yourself in an Age of Unreason spoke with Fox News Radio's Guy Benson about Twitter and Facebook's censorship of the New York Post, Biden expos&#233;. Saying, </p><p>"I mean, first off the veracity of the story is irrelevant at this point. The idea that something has to be 100 percent factually true and verified by an endless amount of verifiable sources to be put on Twitter is crazy. I mean, let's not forget, we had two years of what turned out to be an absolute Russia hoax, that, you know, that they manipulated the election and know that. And it was basically driven by Donald Trump that led to a sham impeachment. And this was driven by people at MSNBC and CNN and mainstream media people all time who were constantly sourcing anonymous people. And, you know, a third party said that this happened, this happened, this happened. So the idea that this story is somehow beyond the pale compared to what we've been seeing for the last three years is actually crazy. I mean, I think that, you know this well, I mean, the issue here is that this story, whether whether fully true or not, not only hurts Joe Biden, but really it's a direct condemnation of Joe Biden. What is in this story id true? Because this idea that Hunter Biden was getting 50 grand, but from barisma to be a consultant on a project that he knew nothing about. And of course, everyone has seen that video of Biden basically saying that he had  the prosecutor fired or he was going to hold up, you know, all this money at aid. This is pointed at the Democrats, at the left, at the left, at Biden, where the Russia stuff was pointed at Trump."</p></blockquote>