--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://s.abcnews.com/images/US/WireAP_2376e8a4155a49b68a6f69d96f9568e2_16x9_992.jpg 
title: > 
  Denver TV station security guard charged with murder 
description: > 
  Denver TV station security guard charged with murder A television station security guard accused of fatally shooting a pro-police demonstrator following opposing rallies has been charged with second-degree murderDENVER -- A television station security guard accused of fatally shooting a pro-police demonstrator following opposing rallies was charged Monday with second-degree murder, according to the Denver district court clerk’s office.People convicted of second-degree murder face a mandatory sentence of between 16 and 48 years in prison.William Boyle, a lawyer for Keltner’s widow, said Friday that he thinks the evidence available supports a second-degree murder charge.Under Colorado law, second-degree murder is defined as knowingly killing someone but without the deliberation prosecutors are required to prove in first-degree murder cases.Keltner slapped Dolloff in the head and Dolloff pulled out a semiautomatic handgun and shot Keltner as Keltner discharged pepper spray at him, police said in an arrest affidavit. 
date: 1603166676.173035 
--- 
<div><p>Denver TV station security guard charged with murder A television station security guard accused of fatally shooting a pro-police demonstrator following opposing rallies has been charged with second-degree murder</p><p>DENVER -- A television station security guard accused of fatally shooting a pro-police demonstrator following opposing rallies was charged Monday with second-degree murder, according to the Denver district court clerk&#8217;s office.</p><p>The charges in the death of Lee Keltner, 49, were filed to the district court against Matthew Dolloff, 30, who was protecting a KUSA-TV producer at the time of the incident.</p><p class="Ad incontentTeads incontentTeads--story ad-slot"></p><p>The next hearing is set for Wednesday morning, according to the district court clerk&#8217;s office. No attorney has been listed for Dolloff yet in court records.</p><p>People convicted of second-degree murder face a mandatory sentence of between 16 and 48 years in prison.</p><p>William Boyle, a lawyer for Keltner&#8217;s widow, said Friday that he thinks the evidence available supports a second-degree murder charge.</p><p>Under Colorado law, second-degree murder is defined as knowingly killing someone but without the deliberation prosecutors are required to prove in first-degree murder cases.</p><p>Boyle said he has reached out to KUSA-TV, Pinkerton and Isborn Security, the security company that said it hired Dolloff for the work as a contractor to Pinkerton, seeking more information about their actions. He said he did not immediately hear back from them and that a lawsuit against any entity involved in allowing Dolloff to work without a license was a possibility in order to &#8220;open a conversation.&#8221;</p><p>&#8220;We are just trying to find out exactly what happened, why it happened and who is responsible for creating the situation that resulted in Mr. Keltner&#8217;s death,&#8221; he said.</p><p>Police say Keltner was in a verbal dispute with a 27-year-old man as the rallies broke up Saturday when Dolloff and a 25-year-old person got into an altercation with Keltner.</p><p>Keltner slapped Dolloff in the head and Dolloff pulled out a semiautomatic handgun and shot Keltner as Keltner discharged pepper spray at him, police said in an arrest affidavit.</p><p class="Ad incontentTeads2 incontentTeads2--story ad-slot"></p><p>A cellphone video taken by KUSA&#8217;s producer suggests that Keltner was upset that his dispute with the first man was being recorded by cameras.</p><p>It shows Keltner in a confrontation with a man wearing a T-shirt that read, &#8220;Black Guns Matter.&#8221; A bystander is trying to defuse the argument, which occurred after a &#8220;Patriot Muster&#8221; demonstration and &#8220;BLM-Antifa Soup Drive&#8221; counterprotest downtown.</p><p>The video then shows Keltner, holding a spray can, walking out of view. A man&#8217;s voice &#8212; it&#8217;s unclear if it&#8217;s Keltner &#8212; is heard saying the area was no place for cameras.</p><p>&#8220;Get the cameras out of here or I&#8217;m going to f&#8212;- you up,&#8221; the unidentified man says. Keltner and Dolloff are then shown scuffling before the video stops.</p><p>The producer resumes filming after the shooting and tells arriving police that he is with the press and says of the man who was shot, &#8220;That guy was going to get me.&#8221; He also says the security guard shot Keltner because Keltner used mace.</p><p>Someone out of view can also be heard saying &#8220;he&#8217;s got magazines in his coat&#8221; but it is not clear who the person is talking about.</p><p>Police said they found two guns but they have not explained who they belonged to.</p><p>&#8212;&#8212;&#8212;</p><p>Nieberg is a corps member for the Associated Press/Report for America Statehouse News Initiative. Report for America is a nonprofit national service program that places journalists in local newsrooms to report on undercovered issues.</p></div>