--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/XGEYXOH2I4I6THQCDVC4WPP2R4.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Department of Justice charges Google with multiple violations of federal antitrust law 
description: > 
  A federal antitrust lawsuit marks the start, not the end, of the government’s gambit against Google.It could take years for a federal court to resolve whether the company violated the country’s competition laws and, if so, what punishments it should may face.The DOJ and Google have warred over the company’s apparent unwillingness to turn over documents that federal investigators describe as critical to their work.Dozens of agency staff signaled this summer they did not feel they were ready to bring charges against Google, but Attorney General William P. Barr ultimately overruled them — and set the Justice Department on a course to file this month.The federal investigation has proceeded in parallel with state probes commenced last September by nearly every Democratic and Republican attorney general. 
date: 1603210182.3814685 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Justice Department&#8217;s complaint &#8212; filed as the United States v. Google in federal court in Washington D.C. &#8212; contends that Google relied on a mix of special agreements and dubious business practices to become the market leader in search, capturing nearly 90 percent of all queries in the United States. That alleged &#8220;grip on distribution&#8221; also has allowed Google to enrich itself through a lucrative system of search advertising across the web &#8212; a footprint that makes it impossible for other search engines to launch or compete.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Justice Department did not explicitly ask a judge to break apart Google as part of its complaint, though it did request the court consider &#8220;structural relief&#8221; -- which theoretically could include a requirement that the company sell a portion of its business. In doing so, government lawyers invoked the specter of the government&#8217;s last major antitrust challenge against a tech giant &#8212; its years-long war with Microsoft &#8212; in making the case that Google violated the Sherman Act.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Absent a court order, Google will continue executing its anticompetitive strategy, crippling the competitive process, reducing consumer choice, and stifling innovation,&#8221; the Department of Justice alleged in its complaint, adding: &#8220;For the sake of American consumers, advertisers, and all companies now reliant on the internet economy, the time has come to stop Google&#8217;s anticompetitive conduct and restore competition.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Google did not immediately respond to a request for comment.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A federal antitrust lawsuit marks the start, not the end, of the government&#8217;s gambit against Google. It could take years for a federal court to resolve whether the company violated the country&#8217;s competition laws and, if so, what punishments it should may face.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Eleven Republican attorneys general &#8212; from states including Louisiana, Florida and Texas &#8212; have signed onto the Justice Department&#8217;s complaint. Other states may still choose to join the federal case, or they may opt to bring their own against the tech giant, widening the legal ground Google must cover to defend its business from serious, potentially far-reaching changes.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But the filing alone still serves as a stunning turn of events for Google, roughly seven years after the federal government last probed the company for potential antitrust violations -- an inquiry that regulators concluded without suing Google or seeking significant penalties, including its breakup. The inaction in Washington for years has stood in stark contrast to the <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/03/20/google-fined-nearly-billion-ad-practices-that-violated-european-antitrust-laws/?itid=lk_inline_manual_16" target="_blank">withering antitrust scrutiny Google has faced in Europe</a>, where competition regulators over the past decade have slapped the Mountain View, California-based tech behemoth with $9 billion in fines and sought to secure major changes to the way it offers search, advertising and Android, its smartphone operating system.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Justice Department began scrutinizing Google as part of a <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/07/23/justice-department-announces-antitrust-review-big-tech-threatening-facebook-google-with-more-scrutiny/?itid=lk_inline_manual_18" target="_blank">broad review of big tech</a> announced last summer, as federal officials sought to respond to what they described then as &#8220;widespread concerns that consumers, businesses, and entrepreneurs have expressed about search, social media, and some retail services online." That September, Google started turning over key, sensitive documents to DOJ for its investigation, the company <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/09/06/google-receives-demand-documents-doj-acknowledging-federal-antitrust-scrutiny/?itid=lk_inline_manual_18" target="_blank">acknowledged in a securities filing</a> at the time.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Initially, DOJ officials signaled an interest in probing the company&#8217;s advertising business, which contributed the lion&#8217;s share of the company&#8217;s <a href="https://abc.xyz/investor/static/pdf/2019Q4_alphabet_earnings_release.pdf" target="_blank">total $162 billion in 2019 revenue</a>. Quickly, though, the probe expanded to touch on a wider array of issues in response to a flurry of complaints from rival companies &#8212; from news publishers to travel review websites &#8212; that say Google wields its powerful search engine in myriad ways to entrench its dominance.</p><p class="powa-wrapper"></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">At times, the federal probe has proven acrimonious. The DOJ and Google have <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/02/27/google-doj-antitrust-evidence/?itid=lk_inline_manual_23" target="_blank">warred</a> over the company&#8217;s apparent unwillingness to turn over documents that federal investigators describe as critical to their work. Within DOJ, meanwhile, government lawyers have sparred among themselves over the timeline for bringing a case particularly in the weeks before the 2020 presidential election. Dozens of agency staff signaled this summer they did not feel they were ready to bring charges against Google, but Attorney General William P. Barr ultimately overruled them &#8212; and <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2020/09/03/doj-google-antitrust/?itid=lk_inline_manual_23" target="_blank">set the Justice Department on a course</a> to file this month.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The federal investigation has proceeded in parallel with state probes commenced last September by nearly every Democratic and Republican attorney general. Some of the <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2019/10/08/texas-attorney-general-googles-new-competition-cop-says-everything-is-table/?itid=lk_interstitial_manual_6&amp;itid=lk_inline_manual_24" target="_blank">investigations</a> have broadened to encompass more than advertising -- touching on search and the extent to which Google further enhances its dominance through the Android smartphone operating system.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A handful of states including Colorado, Iowa, Nebraska and New York issued a joint public statement Tuesday indicating they are still scrutinizing a wide array of Google&#8217;s business practices and may opt to join any federal case later.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;This is a historic time for both federal and state antitrust authorities, as we work to protect competition and innovation in our technology markets,&#8221; the states&#8217; statement said. "We plan to conclude parts of our investigation of Google in the coming weeks. If we decide to file a complaint, we would file a motion to consolidate our case with the DOJ&#8217;s. We would then litigate the consolidated case cooperatively, much as we did in the Microsoft case.&#8221;</p></div>