--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/family/2020/10/06/TELEMMGLPICT000216301343_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqVzuuqpFlyLIwiB6NTmJwW34mVhoeodZMNjsT-6X3KU.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Depriving young people of the great outdoors is an utter tragedy 
description: > 
  But the current guidance is that only day trips can be undertaken to outdoor centres, which immediately makes the vast majority unviable or of little benefit.Tall Ships are one example, but it is a story replicated across many other successful charities.Do we actually need to stop young people who are at little risk of serious illness from being out together in the mountains and on the sea?We should prioritise the most vulnerable young people in the country, who are already more badly affected than their peers.Unless we do, there will be no “levelling up” – only higher mental illness rates, increased youth offending and more crime. 
date: 1603142888.5554047 
--- 
<div><p>This particular organisation has made every effort to ensure that safe bubbles of young people and staff could be created, and is prepared to invest in the new, more rapid tests that are steadily becoming available. But the current guidance is that only day trips can be undertaken to outdoor centres, which immediately makes the vast majority unviable or of little benefit.</p>
<p>Tall Ships are one example, but it is a story replicated across many other successful charities. The Children&#8217;s Trust offer short breaks for children with brain injuries and neurodisabilities; Free to be Kids take young people struggling with social and emotional difficulties on adventures in the countryside; the Honeypot Children&#8217;s Charity gives respite breaks for young carers in the New Forest &#8211; these are just some of a wide range of outstanding organisations whose residential courses have now been shut down for many months.</p>
<p>Do we actually need to stop young people who are at little risk of serious illness from being out together in the mountains and on the sea? And even if we accept there is some risk to the adults who supervise them, can&#8217;t we trust them to minimise that risk while maintaining their remarkable work?</p>
<p>Of course, with the current resurgence of Covid, and the intense debates about local lockdowns and circuit-breakers, opening up this vital sector will not be on the minds of political leaders. But the day will come soon when there is sufficient confidence in new, quicker tests to allow for people to be told about things they can do rather than always hearing of what they can&#8217;t. In the coming weeks, outdoor education and training should be ranked as a necessary part of keeping schooling going, and be allowed to open up as much as the change of season permits.</p>
<p>Whatever restrictions are necessary this autumn, we should remember at all times the mounting human cost of lockdowns and try to alleviate them wherever possible. We should prioritise the most vulnerable young people in the country, who are already more badly affected than their peers. Unless we do, there will be no &#8220;levelling up&#8221; &#8211; only higher mental illness rates, increased youth offending and more crime. It is time, very soon, to say that the balance of risk favours allowing some outstanding charities and businesses to do what our society desperately needs them to do.</p>
</div>