--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/politics/2020/10/18/122hblower9-10-20_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqjYeQRtCUmaNTl9ge3Skvf2LZgWddHfes6e-pNqDiVg.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Devolution is a mess that fails the public and endangers the Union 
description: > 
  But no other city or region in England has the same power, and as Covid has shown us, ultimate responsibility remains with the Government.In London, Sadiq Khan has repeatedly demanded tougher lockdown measures, only to complain about them as soon as the Government “imposed” them.Thanks to the lack of accountability in the London mayoral model, he gets away with it time and again.Powers need to be passed down in a consistent and structured way, and the responsibility and accountability of mayors must be better aligned.More urgent and important is what to do about devolution to the nations of the UK. 
date: 1603072174.723363 
--- 
<div><p>But the problems with metro mayor devolution are visible in other ways. In Manchester, the mayoralty has been granted control of health and social care spending. But no other city or region in England has the same power, and as Covid has shown us, ultimate responsibility remains with the Government. In the West Midlands, where the powers of the mayoralty are extremely limited, and where a Conservative is mayor, the imposition of new restrictions felt random and drew unusual criticism from the normally loyal Andy Street.</p>
<p>In London, Sadiq Khan has repeatedly demanded tougher lockdown measures, only to complain about them as soon as the Government &#8220;imposed&#8221; them. Just as with his core responsibilities &#8211; on crime and policing, housing and the capital&#8217;s transport system &#8211; Khan has learned from the SNP playbook. He jumps on any passing bandwagon to win publicity, but with his formal tasks he evades responsibility, always blaming the Government for not spending enough or granting him the right powers. Thanks to the lack of accountability in the London mayoral model, <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/17/london-deserves-great-statesman-charge-instead-has-sadiq-khan/">he gets away with it time and again</a>.</p>
<p>The Covid crisis has exposed the absurdities of centralising and controlling government. In Germany, which has weathered the storm better than any European country, success is partly down to the settled and decentralised relationship between Berlin and the L&#228;nder. In Britain, the failure of the centralised test-and-trace system contrasted with effective locally run schemes in Ceredigion and Cumbria.</p>
<p>So the question is not whether we need to decentralise but how we do so in a smarter and more coherent fashion. Powers need to be passed down in a consistent and structured way, and the responsibility and accountability of mayors must be better aligned.</p>
<p>More urgent and important is what to do about devolution to the nations of the UK. For we have in the past two decades or so created a new &#8211; and failing &#8211; constitutional settlement in a fit of absence of mind. And now the Union itself is in peril. Ministers cannot afford to play Russian roulette with referendum after referendum. Nor can they adopt a responsive and defensive strategy. A second vote for Scotland is probably already inevitable, but before it comes we need a bold new constitutional settlement for the UK: a fully federal system with maximum decentralisation, satisfying Scotland&#8217;s desire for more control of its own affairs, granting fair representation to England, and bringing democratic accountability to political power.</p>
<p>Brexit &#8211; and with it, the responsibility to maintain the UK&#8217;s single market and pursue an independent trade policy &#8211; creates an opportunity for Westminster to remain relevant in all four nations of the Union. Ministers also need to construct and renew institutions and cultural traditions that bring us all together.</p>
<p>Critics will dismiss constitutional change as an unnecessary distraction. But our tumultuous times prove the power of issues of identity and the vital importance of deciding where power should legitimately reside. Westminster needs to overcome its complacency, resist its tendency to panic, and show decisive leadership. This is about not only the quality of our government, but the very existence of our country. And we have not a moment to lose.</p>
</div>