--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.foxnews.com/foxnews.com/content/uploads/2020/10/Ballot-Box-Fire-GETTY.jpg 
title: > 
  DNI Ratcliffe, FBI say Iran, Russia attempting to interfere with 2020 election 
description: > 
  Russia and Iran are attempting to influence the 2020 elections and have obtained some voter registration information, Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe said at an FBI press conference on Wednesday.He noted that the registration information they obtained could be used to confuse voters through false communication.The Iranian interference that's been discovered, Ratcliffe said, has been designed to incite social unrest and damage the president.Although we have not seen the same actions from Russia, we are aware that they have obtained some voter information just as they did in 2016.The voter-intimidation operation apparently used email addresses obtained from state voter registration lists, which include party affiliation and home addresses and can include email addresses and phone numbers. 
keywords: > 
  russia, say, dni, actions, voters, addresses, 2020, voter, registration, information, obtained, iran, used, election, video, seen, interfere, fbi, ratcliffe, attempting 
date: 1603328365.0126138 
--- 
<div><p class="speakable"><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/world/world-regions/russia" target="_blank">Russia</a>&#160;and <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/world/conflicts/iran" target="_blank">Iran</a> are attempting to influence the <a href="https://www.foxnews.com/category/politics/2020-presidential-election" target="_blank">2020 elections</a> and have obtained some voter registration information, Director of National Intelligence John Ratcliffe said at an FBI press conference on Wednesday.</p><p class="ad gam"></p><p class="ad gam"></p><p class="ad gam"></p><p class="speakable">Ratcliffe noted that both nations had taken specific actions to influence voters' opinions. He noted that the registration information they obtained could be used to confuse voters through false communication.&#160;</p><p>The Iranian interference that's been discovered, Ratcliffe said, has been designed to incite social unrest and damage the president.</p><p>"This data can be used by foreign&#160;actors to attempt to communicate&#160;false information to registered&#160;voters that they hope will cause&#160;confusion, sow&#160;chaos, and&#160;undermine your confidence in&#160;American democracy," he said.&#160;"To that end, we have already&#160;seen Iran sending spoofed emails&#160;designed to intimidate voters,&#160;incite social unrest, and damage&#160;President Trump. You may have seen some reporting&#160;on this in the last 24 hours or&#160;you may have even been one of&#160;the recipients of those&#160;emails."</p><p class="ad gam"></p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/politics/doj-charges-russian-military-hackers-worldwide-cyber-attacks-winter-olympic-games" target="_blank"><strong>DOJ CHARGES 6 RUSSIAN MILITARY HACKERS FOR GLOBAL CYBERATTACKS THAT TARGETED OLYMPIC GAMES, OTHERS</strong></a></p><p class="ad gam"></p><p>He added that Iran was distributing a video with false information about fraudulent ballots.</p><p>"Iran is&#160;distributing other content to&#160;include a video that implies&#160;that individuals could cast&#160;fraudulent ballots, even from&#160;overseas.&#160;This video and any claims about&#160;such allegedly fraudulent&#160;ballots are not true," he said.</p><p class="ad gam"></p><p>"These actions are desperate&#160;attempts by desperate&#160;adversaries.&#160;Even if the adversaries pursue&#160;further attempts to intimidate&#160;or attempt to undermine voter confidence, know that our&#160;election systems are resilient&#160;and you can be confident your&#160;votes are secure.&#160;Although we have not seen the&#160;same actions from Russia, we are&#160;aware that they have obtained&#160;some voter information just as&#160;they did in 2016.&#160;Rest assured that we are&#160;prepared for the possibility of&#160;actions by those hostile to&#160;democracy."&#160;</p><p class="ad gam"></p><p>Noting that his agency was responsible for investigating election crimes, FBI Director Christopher Wray vowed to take action in order to ensure the integrity of U.S. elections. He said that Americans should be "confident" that their votes count.</p><p class="ad gam"></p><p>"We are not going to let our guard down," he added.</p><p class="ad gam"></p><p><a href="https://www.foxnews.com/apps-products?pid=AppArticleLink" target="_blank"><strong>CLICK HERE TO GET THE FOX NEWS APP</strong></a></p><p>The news conference was held as Democratic voters in at least four battleground states, including Florida and Pennsylvania, have received threatening emails, falsely purporting to be from the far-right group Proud Boys, that warned &#8220;we will come after you&#8221; if the recipients didn&#8217;t vote for President Donald Trump.</p><p>The voter-intimidation operation apparently used email addresses obtained from state voter registration lists, which include party affiliation and home addresses and can include email addresses and phone numbers. Those addresses were then used in an apparently widespread targeted spamming operation. The senders claimed they would know which candidate the recipient was voting for in the Nov. 3 election, for which early voting is ongoing.</p><p class="ad gam"></p><p class="ad gam"></p><p>The Associated Press contributed to this report.</p></div>