--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f918bddabcd0c0018d6901b?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Don't blame Quibi's failure on the pandemic. The real problem was that it completely misunderstood what people actually want to watch​. 
description: > 
  The streaming service Quibi is shutting down, the company confirmed on Wednesday.The problem is that it completely overestimated the market of people who care about what it was building.Quibi's biggest problem was never the pandemic.That someone as sharp as Katzenberg underestimated the extent to which his streaming service would have to compete for people's attention is not a good sign.The timing certainly didn't help, but the real problem was always the idea, and the way Quibi imagined itself. 
keywords: > 
  katzenberg, streaming, problem, blame, dont, misunderstood, quibis, quibi, company, service, wasnt, failure, youtube, watch, inbetween, real, pandemic, completely 
date: 1603380151.4081726 
--- 
<div><p class="category-stamp">
                          
                             
                        
                        <p class="svg-word"></p>                      </p>

                      <ul class="summary-list">
<li>The streaming service Quibi is shutting down, <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/quibi-streaming-service-considering-shutting-down-report-2020-10">the company confirmed on Wednesday</a>. Quibi raised almost $2 billion and attracted high-profile talent to its unique version of "on-the-go" content.</li>
<li>The company says the pandemic is largely responsible for the fact that it lost around 90 percent of its subscribers when its free trial ended.</li>
<li>In reality, Quibi completely overestimated the market of people who cared about what it was building.</li>
<li>The company never built a product for this very small niche, but the even bigger problem was that it never recognized that it had to.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>It's easy to pass off the failure of 6-month-old Quibi as the extremely poor luck of launching a service (meant to fill those in-between times when you're on the go) just before there's absolutely nowhere to go.</p><p>The pandemic's arrival in the US just a month before Quibi launched in April didn't help, but it isn't why the streaming startup failed.</p><h2><strong>The problem is that it completely overestimated the market of people who care about what it was building.</strong></h2><p><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/quibi-streaming-service-considering-shutting-down-report-2020-10">To briefly recap</a>, Quibi was the extremely well-funded streaming video service that launched with the promise of a long roster of well-known stars. It had commitments from Disney, WarnerMedia, and others that would produce short (less than 10 minutes) video episodes that people could watch during the in-between times that you're riding the subway or waiting in line to check out at the grocery store.</p><p>It even won two Emmys during its short life. Unfortunately, that was as good as it ever got.</p><p><strong>Read more: </strong><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/quibi-is-jeffrey-katzenberg-vision-of-mobile-tv-leadership-style-2020-6?r=kt-sub">15 Quibi insiders detail Jeffrey Katzenberg's tight control of the startup's content and intense leadership as he tries to avoid disaster after raising $1.8 billion</a></p><p><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/quibi-offers-a-profound-apology-as-it-shuts-down-2020-10">In an open letter to Quibi's employees</a>, CEO Meg Whitman and founder Jeffrey Katzenberg, the high-profile former Disney studio boss who started working on Quibi two years ago, confirmed that the company would be shutting down.</p><p>Katzenberg said that keeping the company running wasn't going to produce a different, more successful outcome &#8212; it would only continue being a money pit without creating any value.</p><p>To understand why Quibi was never going to have a different outcome, it's worth considering why it lost 90 percent of its audience once the free trial ended.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<h2><strong>Quibi's biggest problem was never the pandemic.&#160;</strong></h2><p>I remember sitting across the table from Tom Conrad and Rob Post, Quibi's head of product and head of technology, respectively, at CES earlier this year.</p><p>The demo they showed me of how Quibi's "turnstyle" technology worked was impressive, even if it wasn't entirely clear why anyone would care that they could rotate their phone vertically and get an alternative edit, or even a different view of the show they were watching.</p><p>It was very cool technology, but I left thinking that they've put a lot of effort into something that I just couldn't see anyone caring about enough to pay for. Apparently not many did.</p><h2><strong>Except with Quibi, the pitch was even more narrow.</strong></h2><p>On stage at CES, Katzenberg talked about Quibi filling the time people would otherwise look for short, user-generated content on YouTube, but with much higher-quality.&#160;</p><p>But for most people, in those moments, whatever is on YouTube is good enough.</p><p>That isn't to say anything bad about video creators on YouTube &#8212; some of whom are producing incredibly high-quality content &#8212; but the average person looking to waste 10 minutes isn't paying a monthly subscription just because your streaming service has higher production values than YouTube and a quirky way to switch between views of your content.</p><p>That says a lot about why Quibi failed.</p><p><strong>Read more: </strong><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/quibi-insiders-share-experiences-working-on-shows-movies-of-app-2020-6?r=kt-sub">Inside Quibi's productions: From extensive notes to close control over social-media clips, the mobile-video startup is still figuring out how to create its first hit</a></p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<h2><strong>It never realized it wasn't a big thing, and make no mistake, comparing yourself to YouTube is a big thing.</strong></h2><p>Quibi raised money like a big thing, and it attracted celebrity talent that, on the surface, at least, appeared to validate the idea that it was a big thing.</p><p>Katzenberg told Deadline that "everything about Quibi was designed to be on the go, in-between moments at a moment in time which no one was on the go and their in-between moments were on their couch, and suddenly we were competing for people's attention in a way that we never conceived of or thought of."</p><p>That someone as sharp as Katzenberg underestimated the extent to which his streaming service would have to compete for people's attention is not a good sign. That, combined with the fact that he overestimated what Quibi was building is even worse.</p><p>Money, though, sometimes causes people and companies to do funny things. It can make people do things they might not otherwise have done if they had time to think it through without dollar bills dangling in front of their eyes.&#160;</p><h2><strong>In Quibi's case, it made everyone involved ignore the reality that it had no idea what its customers actually wanted, or how many there actually were.</strong></h2><p>It had a technological marvel and a novel form of content it was convinced people should want, but never thought about whether they actually did.</p><p>In the open letter, Katzenberg and Whitman mentioned that it failed for one of two reasons: "...because the idea itself wasn't strong enough to justify a standalone streaming service or because of our timing. Unfortunately, we will never know but we suspect it's been a combination of the two."</p><p>The timing certainly didn't help, but the real problem was always the idea, and the way Quibi imagined itself.</p><p>Quibi did everything like it was the next Disney+ when really it was always going to be something that catered to a very small niche. Unfortunately, Quibi didn't build a product for that niche, or even recognize that it should.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-4" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-4" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>If it had, it might have had a chance.</p>
                  </div>