--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/16/opinion/16stockman/merlin_168748716_43a40eab-bb9b-42ae-81b8-b28c2616078f-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Donald Trump's Fake Populism - The New York Times 
description: > 
  The same week I met Tim, I interviewed an anarchist facing criminal charges for his role in the disruption of Mr. Trump’s inauguration when windows were smashed and a limousine was set on fire.Free trade and globalization have undoubtedly made the country richer.The rebellion against free trade and globalization has largely taken the left by surprise.Joe Biden, who once whole-heartedly embraced free trade, acknowledges the harm it’s inflicted on the working class.“Biden, the nominally centrist candidate, has a platform that is far more progressive than Hillary Clinton’s on economics,” Mr. Rodrik told me in an email. 
date: 1603072116.6884115 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Anger about globalization is not confined to the right. It fueled the rise of Bernie Sanders, who won the endorsement of the steelworkers I followed. The same week I met Tim, I interviewed an anarchist facing criminal charges for his role in the disruption of Mr. Trump&#8217;s inauguration when windows were smashed and a limousine was set on fire. Why had he became an anarchist? NAFTA and the tyranny of global capitalism, he said.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">To many, that anger can seem silly or misplaced. Free trade and globalization have undoubtedly made the country richer. But those riches have flowed disproportionately to the few with capital and education, while globalization&#8217;s downsides have piled on the shoulders of the most vulnerable Americans.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">NAFTA has come to symbolize a world order crafted by elites, for elites. The deal traded away blue-collar factory jobs in exchange for white-collar opportunities to invest in Mexico&#8217;s banking and insurance sectors. Today, even its biggest supporters admit that it resulted in <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.piie.com/blogs/trade-investment-policy-watch/nafta-rejoinder-us-effects-are-clearly-positive-most-workers" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">a net loss</a> of American jobs.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">In hindsight, it seems inevitable that globalization would cause a backlash. During the height of euphoria about free trade in the 1990s, the philosopher Richard Rorty <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2016/11/21/books/richard-rortys-1998-book-suggested-election-2016-was-coming.html" title="">predicted</a> that workers &#8220;will sooner or later realize that their government is not even trying to prevent wages from sinking or to prevent jobs from being exported.&#8221; At that point, he wrote, parts of the electorate &#8220;will decide that the system has failed and start looking around for a strongman to vote for &#8212; someone willing to assure them that, once he is elected, the smug bureaucrats, tricky lawyers, overpaid bond salesmen and postmodernist professors will no longer be calling the shots.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">In countries from Britain to Brazil, voters have elected leaders who promised to reverse decades of international economic integration. Most of those populist movements are right wing. The rebellion against free trade and globalization has largely taken the left by surprise. Dani Rodrik, an economics professor at Harvard who is perhaps the country&#8217;s most prominent skeptic of unfettered globalization, lamented <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/anti-globalization-backlash-from-right-by-dani-rodrik-2016-07" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">in an article</a> a few months before Mr. Trump&#8217;s election that left-wing parties around the world had failed to present viable alternatives to protectionism and walls.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Since then, the landscape has changed. Joe Biden, who once whole-heartedly embraced free trade, acknowledges the harm it&#8217;s inflicted on the working class. Mr. Biden&#8217;s economic plan includes a 10 percent tax on businesses that send manufacturing offshore, and a 10 percent tax credit for companies that bolster job growth inside the United States. He has also <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/14/us/politics/biden-climate-plan.html" title="">put forth a plan</a> to spend $2 trillion over four years on green energy infrastructure.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">&#8220;Biden, the nominally centrist candidate, has a platform that is far more progressive than Hillary Clinton&#8217;s on economics,&#8221; Mr. Rodrik told me in an email. &#8220;But the proof of the pudding is in the eating, and we will see whether Biden will deliver real change if elected.&#8221;</p></div>