--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://media.npr.org/assets/img/2018/08/15/badu_mns_new_wide-a4a4e590c3294d9858c0cf2f169ba250946680da.jpg?s=1400 
title: > 
  Erykah Badu: Tiny Desk Concert 
description: > 
  Some folks around the NPR Music office said they felt an almost spiritual connection to Erykah Badu during her visit to the Tiny Desk.After her self-introduction, which included a rundown of her spiritual and creative aliases, Badu rolled into one of her earliest musical calling cards, "Rimshot."But the panoramic song "Green Eyes" is the centerpiece of Badu's Tiny Desk performance.Erykah Badu is an artist for the ages.Erykah Badu is on that same path, and one day her name will be mentioned along with the other Elders who share her spirit of musical adventure. 
date: 1603092296.4114609 
--- 
<div><p>Some folks around the NPR Music office said they felt an almost spiritual connection to <a href="https://www.npr.org/artists/36898288/erykah-badu">Erykah Badu</a> during her visit to the Tiny Desk. And that was before she and her band even played a single note. It came from the waft of earthly scents that followed in her wake, to the flowing dreads and clothes that hung on her like robes.</p>                     <p>After her self-introduction, which included a rundown of her spiritual and creative aliases, Badu rolled into one of her earliest musical calling cards, "Rimshot." It's an ode to the sound the percussionist makes when a drumstick is struck against the metal edge of the snare drum. On this performance, as on her 1997 album Baduizm, it becomes a device to play with time &#8212; stretching it, stopping it, suspending it. Propelled by jazz chords on the piano and the steady pulse of the acoustic bass, the playful performance unfolded in the tradition of the best bebop.</p>                     <p>But the panoramic song "Green Eyes" is the centerpiece of Badu's Tiny Desk performance. It's wide-ranging in scope and musical arrangement and brilliantly executed by the jazz and hip-hop musicians in her backing band. The story of heartbreak is striking enough, but her interpretation showcases her formidable vocal skills. By the time it was over, we were all just as emotionally and spiritually spent as she was from the experience.</p>                     <p>Erykah Badu is an artist for the ages. To old-school jazz fans like myself, names like Nina Simone, Betty Carter and Shirley Horn come to mind as much as Billie Holiday because of Badu's singular approach to a lyric. They all cut their own creative path and left behind a legacy that you can identify with just one note. Erykah Badu is on that same path, and one day her name will be mentioned along with the other Elders who share her spirit of musical adventure.</p>                     <h3 class="edTag"><strong>Set List</strong></h3>                     <ul class="edTag">                     <li>"Rimshot"</li>                     <li>"Green Eyes"</li>                     </ul>                     <h3 class="edTag"><strong>Musicians</strong></h3>                     <p>Erykah Badu (lead vocals), RC Williams (Keys), Braylon Lacy (bass), Cleon Edwards (Drums), Frank Moka (Percussion), Kenneth Whalum (Sax), Keyon Harrold (Trumpet), Dwayne Kerr (Flute)</p>                     <h3 class="edTag"><strong>Credits</strong><br><strong></strong></h3>                     <p>Producers: Abby O'Neill, Morgan Noelle Smith; Creative Director: Bob Boilen; Audio Engineer: Josh Rogosin; Videographers: Morgan Noelle Smith, Maia Stern, Kara Frame, Khun Minn Ohn, CJ Riculan; Production Assistants: Catherine Zhang, T&#233;a Mottolese; Photo: Morgan Noelle Smith/NPR.</p>
                  </div>