--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/luxury/2020/09/22/03_Paris_31_rue_Cambon_2019_20_Metiers_d_art_collection_Finale_picture_by_Olivier_Saillant_3_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqY1vlWu6X4ClJ13DpyYGHanCugcTyzyB-SXuPVffSvBI.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Exclusive interview: 'We have to find a way to make fashion week happen,' says Chanel boss 
description: > 
  If you're criticised today I think it means you're doing something well.We had 264 million hits, which is more or less the same as the year before, when we did a physical show.Fashion week is still of the utmost importance to the economy.I can't say for certain there will be a fashion week in Paris, but I do say we have to find a way to make it happen in the future.Chanel no longer sells exotic skins because it couldn't guarantee traceability to its own satisfaction. 
date: 1603114220.6718504 
--- 
<div><p>"I think for sure Virginie's suffering because she's not a showman,"&#160;says Pavlovsky. "It's maybe misogynistic. But the clients are really positive. If you're criticised today I think it means you're doing something well. She's the best one for the job."</p>
<p>As far as that digital resort collection goes, there are two aspects, he suggests. "The figures are important. We had 264 million hits, which is more or less the same as the year before, when we did a physical show. And what's interesting is that the engagement was even better. So if I were a statistician, I would be quite happy. But I don't want to just be a statistician.</p>
<p>"Our job at Chanel is not just about numbers but emotion - and even if Virginie did an amazing job in trying to capture emotion in that collection, I would probably conclude that it was not the best [medium] for us. It's all about the live show, every story we tell as a brand begins with that."</p>
<p>That's certainly been the case in the past. Chanel's spectacular, extravagant mises en sc&#232;ne have created some of fashion's biggest stories of the decade, from its rodeo in Dallas to its now-notorious Chanel supermarket set in Paris's Grand Palais. There, the cornflakes and washing-up liquid adorned with Coco's profile proved catnip to showgoers, who couldn't resist stripping the set once the show was over with a thoroughness that could teach your average looter a thing or two.</p>
<p>But isn't the era of overblown events like these, with their stonkingly large carbon footprints, let alone their excessive message, over?</p>
<p>A faint, avuncular chuckle rolls down the phone line. The sort you hear from a kindly tutor when an idealistic student has just posited a ridiculous idea. "Planes are still flying. Business still has to be done. Fashion week is still of the utmost importance to the economy. I can't say for certain there will be a fashion week in Paris, but I do say we have to find a way to make it happen in the future. We're definitely aiming to come back with a Cruise collection with a real live audience on November the 15th."</p>
<p>For those hoping the pandemic would be fashion's great opportunity to reset, this all seems anti-climactic. What about the profligacy of all those shows? It's not that Chanel doesn't care about the environment, argues Pavlovsky. No brand these days can afford not to. They're offsetting like crazy, he points out. While there is endless debate about the efficacy and ethics of that, there are some meaningful steps the house has taken. "Fourteen out of 50 looks in Cruise were done with sustainable fabrics,"&#160;he says. "It's the first time we have had this level of transparency and we want to do more and more of that."</p>
<p>As for the reason Chanel has raised the prices of its bags, it isn't to exploit a global health crisis, he explains patiently, but because the costs of manufacturing and materials have gone up. "It's more and more difficult to get the best-quality leather and to protect those sources. We care about animal welfare and ensuring that we maintain that too."&#160;</p>
<p>Chanel no longer sells exotic skins because it couldn't guarantee traceability to its own satisfaction. It's investing in its tanneries to make them cleaner and greener. And what's noteworthy is that it's doing this not under duress from the market, but because the house feels it's the right thing to do. "To be very frank, I don't know if all of our customers are that concerned about where their skins come from. But the next generation is, and so are we."</p>
<p>There are other, more pragmatic, arguments for the price hike of course. For years, queues of Chinese customers had become a common sight outside European flagship stores for the simple reason that things were cheaper here. "We needed to harmonise prices across the world. Four years ago, we reduced them by 20 per cent in Asia and increased them by 20 per cent in Europe, which accounted for the first discernible rise. Then we had inflation..."</p>
</div>