--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/tv/2020/10/15/TELEMMGLPICT000241731817_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqgGkfkDQxy4meE2pwF2fWRDdxpdyw1YKB2o5_zXSc93Y.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Finally I understand why people say the BBC is too Left-wing 
description: > 
  No, I don’t mean that gloomy joke.I was reflecting on this as I watched A Celebration of Play for Today (BBC Four) on Monday.I don’t mean to be a philistine, I’m sure there was some wonderful writing.I finally understand why people say the BBC is too Left-wing.I don’t think that’s true of it now, but I realise where the hangover must come from. 
date: 1603083796.780139 
--- 
<div><p>But what about smaller theatres? Most have had to postpone their 2020 pantos until next Christmas, though a few around the country are doing brief runs. I found a Cinderella in Nottingham, a Sleeping Beauty in Tyne and Wear and five days of a Goldilocks in Glasgow, but little else around the country. Nothing in Wales at all.</p>
<p>God, I hope those shows can go ahead. It seems such a virtuous circle: actors, costumiers, set builders and ice-cream salesmen able to do their jobs, theatres kept open, children delighted, parents proud to provide a treat, tills jingling and national morale boosted&#8230; with grandparents free to choose whether to stay safely away or think &#8220;What the hell&#8221;.</p>
<p>Some of those grandparents may remember going to the theatre during the Blitz. The Windmill famously never closed, and many others reopened before the bombing was over; Rex Harrison performed, and Joyce Grenfell, and George Black presented a show called Applesauce: The Laughter Blitz. That&#8217;s the spirit!</p>
<p>The closing of theatres in March 2020 was an especially dark day for me. That&#8217;s because my husband was in a play at the time, so I&#8217;d had the house to myself.</p>
<p>No, I don&#8217;t mean that gloomy joke. I couldn&#8217;t mean it less. His show (<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/theatre/what-to-see/upstart-crow-review-gielgud-welcome-back-ben-elton-forgiven/">The Upstart Crow</a>; posters are still up on Shaftesbury Avenue) was terrific in every way, and closing it down was desperately sad. I miss that play, and the West End transfer of <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/theatre/what-to-see/watsons-review-minerva-chichester-affectionate-entertaining/">The Watsons</a> that I looked forward to seeing, <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/theatre/what-to-see/leopoldstadt-review-wyndhams-theatre-tom-stoppard-delivers-unforgettable/">Leopoldstadt </a>that we had tickets for, the Edinburgh Fringe that never was, and the local children&#8217;s puppet shows my daughter found so magical but has now stopped asking to see.</p>
<p>So much joy from drama! I was reflecting on this as I watched <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/tv/0/play-today-gave-audiences-dramas-could-actually-relate/">A Celebration of Play for Today</a>&#160;(BBC Four) on Monday. Although I&#8217;m not sure why, because everything on it looked bloody awful.</p>
<p>I don&#8217;t mean to be a philistine, I&#8217;m sure there was some wonderful writing. But so dour! So bleak, so brown, and literally every single play seemed to be about trade union meetings. (Or, in one case, &#8220;the expansive tale of a clash between the state and a housing association trying to resist rent rises&#8221;.)</p>
<p>Christ! Who were they for? If you actually had the sort of life that involved 1970s trade unions and housing associations trying to resist rent rises, wouldn&#8217;t you want to go home and see a bit of Disney? A bit of Morecambe and Wise with Shirley Bassey putting her foot through a step?&#160;</p>
<p>At the risk of disrespecting greater writers than I&#8217;ll ever be, there was no avoiding the faint whiff of misery porn for the middle classes. It actually started to become funny, how gruelling the plots all sounded. (&#8220;Joe&#8217;s life is shaped by his alcoholic father&#8217;s past in the IRA&#8230;&#8221;)</p>
<p>Thank God for the odd glimpse of Alison Steadman doing <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/tv/2017/04/06/abigails-party-40-sneer-lower-middle-classes-one-greatest-plays/">Abigail&#8217;s Party</a> &#8211; although that was rather spoilt by its author, Mike Leigh, referring scornfully to &#8220;very, very commercial product&#8221; as if something good can only be popular by mistake.</p>
<p>And so preachy! Maybe it&#8217;s just the ones the documentary chose to focus on, but my word! I finally understand why people say the BBC is too Left-wing. I don&#8217;t think that&#8217;s true of it now, but I realise where the hangover must come from. These dramas were relentless! They make Gary Lineker look like Norman Tebbit!</p>
<p>Ah well, I guess there was nothing else on. Just as there might not be at theatres in future, without more emergency help. Live entertainment that everyone can enjoy? It&#8217;s behind you!</p>
</div>