--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/14/23/Election_2020_North_Carolina_Ballots_33397.jpg 
title: > 
  Florida Democrats casting more mail-in ballots than Republicans, early data finds 
description: > 
  Early polling data coming out of Florida suggests Donald Trump's frequent criticisms of mail-in voting have scared his base and rallied his opponents.According to the Florida Division of Elections, 49 per cent of mail-in ballots were turned in by Democrats.Only 30 per cent of voters turning in mail-in ballots were Republicans.In recent weeks Mr Biden has attempted to peel the state's elderly voters away from Mr Trump.That's how he sees you," Mr Biden said. 
date: 1603128750.350274 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p>Early polling data coming out of <a href="/topic/florida">Florida</a> suggests <a href="/topic/donald-trump">Donald Trump</a>'s frequent criticisms of mail-in <a href="/topic/voting">voting</a> have scared his base and rallied his opponents. &#160;
</p><p>According to the Florida Division of Elections, 49 per cent of mail-in ballots were turned in by <a href="/topic/democrats">Democrats</a>. Only 30 per cent of voters turning in mail-in ballots were <a href="/topic/republicans">Republicans</a>. &#160;</p><p></p><p>The remaining approximately 20 per cent of voters were non-party affiliated or affiliated with a third party. &#160;</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>At least 1,190,508 Democrats have voted by mail as compared to 730,123 Republicans. &#160;</p><p></p><p>State elections data suggests that there have been more mail-in votes cast for the 2020 US election than there were for the state's primaries last August.</p><p>Politico reported that this is the first time that Democrats in Florida have led Republicans in mail-in votes this close to an election day. &#160; &#160;</p><p></p><p>Florida is a swing state, and while Mr Trump does have strong influence there - Governor <a href="/topic/ron-desantis">Ron DeSantis</a> is an unwavering ally of the president and the state is home to his Mar a Lago golf resort - recent polling shows Democratic challenger <a href="/topic/joe-biden">Joe Biden</a> is competitive in the state. &#160;</p><p class="sc-pIUCW jVhHsN">Your daily US politics newsletter</p><p class="sc-pQrCd hptqUu"><h4 class="sc-pYMCY iMNmXR"></h4><h4 class="sc-pYMCY sc-oUPCf hOgeNa"></h4></p><a class="nsc-register-btn" href="/register?noframe&amp;rid=READER_ID&amp;url=SOURCE_URL&amp;return=RETURN_URL&amp;regSourceSection=US%20election&amp;regSourceMethod=Article%2BSignpost&amp;newsletter=receiveInsideWashingtonNews">Sign up</a><p class="sc-pdkDa hKpBFR">Already have an account? </p><a href="/independent-premium#newsletters">Update preferences</a><p>A NewsNation/Emerson College poll reported that Mr Biden was polling at 50 per cent in the state while Mr Trump was trailing at 47 per cent, but early polling averages this week show Mr Trump has made up ground, and is now virtually tied with his Democratic rival. &#160;</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>In recent weeks Mr Biden has attempted to peel the state's elderly voters away from Mr Trump. &#160;</p><p>During an appearance at a senior centre in southern Florida last week, Mr Biden spoke to the older voters about Mr Trump's handling of the <a href="/topic/coronavirus">coronavirus</a> and alleged that the president did not care for their well-being. &#160;</p><p>"You're expendable, you're forgettable, you're virtually nobody. That's how he sees seniors. That's how he sees you," Mr Biden said.
</p><p>Mr Biden's claims are more than just hyperbole; Texas Lt Governor <a href="/topic/dan-patrick">Dan Patrick</a>, a vocal ally of the president, came under fire in April when he argued against coronavirus lockdowns by claiming that hurting the economy was worse than elderly people dying. &#160;</p><p>While Mr Patrick is a grandparent to six children and considered himself among those willing to give their lives to save the economy, Mr Trump's allies - as was proven last week when it was reported that former New Jersey Governor <a href="/topic/chris-christie">Chris Christie</a> received an experimental drug to help him survive his battle with <a href="/topic/covid-19">Covid-19</a> - likely have a greater chance at surviving a bout with Covid-19 than the average 70 year old would.</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>