--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/politics/2020/10/14/TELEMMGLPICT000241773548_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqpVlberWd9EgFPZtcLiMQfyf2A9a6I9YchsjMeADBa08.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  For all the angry talk from both sides, a deal is coming down the track 
description: > 
  Today, the EU has forced Mr Johnson into a situation where he has thrown back the gauntlet at them.It will take Angela Merkel to engage forcefully in the next few weeks to get things back on track.Covid has of course perversely made leaving on WTO terms without a negotiated deal much more likely.He has more room for manoeuvre if an Australian style deal (sic) is his preferred endgame - and it isn't yet.The pandemic has also given all sides cover to move to a bare knuckle fight sooner rather than later. 
date: 1602896600.2291384 
--- 
Today, the EU has forced Mr Johnson into a situation where he has thrown back the gauntlet at them. Months of prevarication, running the clock down, passive aggressive briefing, pearl clutching vapours over the Internal Market Bill, after which they failed to take the hint that the UK Government was really not an ersatz version of Theresa May's craven and risible administration and meant business, has brought us to this impasse. Once again, they've shown themselves unable to read the mood music and the political runes. This has been a consistent problem.

I well remember travelling to Munich with David Davis in 2018 for a meeting with key German business people and being told that the UK Parliament would shortly legislate for a second referendum, presumably in order to overturn the result of the one in 2016. Lord Frost is not Olly Robbins, Boris has an 80 seat majority in the Commons and is ahead in most opinion polls and the UK's position is both clear, coherent and consistent.

Meanwhile, the European Union, facing a Covid second wave, is beginning to understand the imperatives of a good relationship and a fair and sustainable deal with it's newly independent neighbour. The leaders of the equivalent of the CBI in France, Italy and Germany wrote on Wednesday imploring Brussels to strike a deal and avoid "customs duties, controls, bureaucracy, delays, blockages outsourcing and so on...." and Michel Barnier has disregarded French histrionics and indicated that talks will continue and he'd "be available...to the last possible day..." to land a mutually beneficial deal. Whether the talks are "intensive" or not - a bone of contention with our Gallic cousins, they will limp on, at least for another two weeks.

It's inherent in dealing with a bureaucracy like the EU, that they're rarely fleet of foot in their thinking and frequently mistime strategic moves. This week is a good example. Instead of banking the UK's softer language and search for compromise on the so called "level playing field" and consolidating their own more pragmatic approach to the issue and recognising the gift horse of solid progress, they insist insist that all further concessions need to be made by a compliant British side and hence Boris Johnson's punchy Agincourt-lite peroration.

It will take Angela Merkel to engage forcefully in the next few weeks to get things back on track. She it seems at last understands what the British people voted for in 2016. German self-interest rules as ever.

Covid has of course perversely made leaving on WTO terms without a negotiated deal much more likely. It has forced Emmanuael Macron to ramp up the rhetoric to assuage the electoral power and influence of the French fishing lobby, even at the risk of shattering the unity of the EU 27. Likewise, Boris Johnson cannot give much ground on state aid, fishing or governance issues, for fear of further antagonising backbench Brexiteers who by an unhappy coincidence are also, many of them, hardline libertarians and lockdown sceptics, champing at the bit to vote against their own government on Covid restrictions. He has more room for manoeuvre if an Australian style deal (sic) is his preferred endgame - and it isn't yet. The Labour Opposition is confused and unfocused on Brexit, Tory Europhiles as a force are a broken reed and business voices are discordant, split and disunited.

The pandemic has also given all sides cover to move to a bare knuckle fight sooner rather than later. There is an assumption by some at the top of government that Covid and Brexit will come together to deliver a general period of Shumpeter's "creative disruption" - a reordering and renaissance of British business to allow it to become more resilient, flexible, agile, competitive, efficient, globally focused and less supine to all things Brussels. Maybe. My clever and well connected former colleague at the Department for Exiting the EU, Raoul Ruparel is right however, that it won't be a quick process and that supply chains and new processes in the event of No Deal will be costly and for some industries, like chemicals and pharma, may prove existential and mission critical.