--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f909aa3212113001874004d?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Former Google CEO Eric Schmidt jumped to the company's defense as it faces a landmark antitrust lawsuit: 'There's a difference between dominance and excellence' 
description: > 
  Former Google CEO Eric Schmidt said the Justice Department's lawsuit against the company is misguided.Schmidt argues that Google has plenty of competition in the search market, but regulators say that exclusive search deals with Apple have stymied rivals.Google's ex-CEO Eric Schmidt came to his former company's defense on Wednesday, saying that he believes the Justice Department lawsuit against Google is unwarranted."There's a difference between dominance and excellence," said the former Google executive in an interview during the Wall Street Journal's Tech Live conference, calling antitrust law a "very blunt instrument."Like Google, Schmidt argued that it is "extremely easy" to switch to another provider, explicitly mentioning Microsoft's Bing as a competitor to Google's search engine. 
keywords: > 
  antitrust, theres, dominance, lawsuit, microsoft, search, jumped, ceo, worked, excellence, eric, landmark, schmidt, google, faces 
date: 1603323204.8476717 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Former Google CEO Eric Schmidt said the Justice Department's lawsuit against the company is misguided. "There's a difference between dominance and excellence," he said.</li>
<li>In an interview with Wall Street Journal's Tech Live, the former exec said he worked hard at Google not to trip the "wires" that would draw antitrust scrutiny.</li>
<li>Schmidt argues that Google has plenty of competition in the search market, but regulators say that exclusive search deals with Apple have stymied rivals.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Google's ex-CEO Eric Schmidt came to his former company's defense on Wednesday, saying that he believes the <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/doj-google-antitrust-case-revealed-2020-10">Justice Department lawsuit against Google</a> is unwarranted.</p><p>"There's a difference between dominance and excellence," said the former Google executive in an interview during the Wall Street Journal's Tech Live conference, calling antitrust law a "very blunt instrument."</p><p>Schmidt, who served as Google's CEO for a decade, pointed to Amazon and Microsoft to make a case that Google has plenty of competition in the market.</p><p>"Google has very strong competitors, especially in the United States, so I would be careful about these dominance arguments," he said. "I just don't agree with them. There's a difference between dominance and excellence."</p><p>The former executive also spoke to the widely observed <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/microsoft-google-antitrust-gary-reback-2020-10">parallels between Google's lawsuit and the Microsoft antitrust case</a> in the late 1990s, and the ways in which Google spent many years trying to avoid a similar fate.</p><p>"I can say we worked hard to avoid any illegal activity," he said. "And I'm quite sure that there's no violations of law on the Google side. I'm sure there are things to complain about&#8230; but as a matter of antitrust I spent a lot of time on the other side of the Microsoft case in 1997, and we worked very hard to not trip those wires."</p><p>The Google lawsuit, which centers around the company's dominance in search, focuses heavily on the deals it's locked up with companies such as Apple to remain the default search engine on their devices.</p><p><a href="https://blog.google/outreach-initiatives/public-policy/response-doj">Like Google</a>, Schmidt argued that it is "extremely easy" to switch to another provider, explicitly mentioning Microsoft's Bing as a competitor to Google's search engine.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"In search, we point out &#8212; and I pointed out for 20 years &#8212; that there is a higher value, larger corporation with more cash and more employees, also known as Microsoft, which has a very competitive offering to Google Search, called Bing," said Schmidt.</p><p>But that argument might be difficult for Google to stand up in court: Google owns 92% of the market share in search, <a href="https://gs.statcounter.com/search-engine-market-share">according to Statcounter data</a> &#8211; the result, regulators argue, of anticompetitive practices.</p><h3>Meanwhile, the cofounders are missing in action</h3><p>Schmidt was instrumental in growing Google into the giant it is today. He served as CEO from 2001 to 2011, and as executive chairman of Alphabet until 2017. He remained an advisor to the company <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/eric-schmidt-reportedly-leaves-google-2020-5">until earlier this year</a>.</p><p>"I'm unfettered by the sort of corporate rule now," Schmidt said Wednesday. "I'm no longer a board member, nor am I an employee. I can say what I actually think, and this is what I actually think."</p><p>However, Schmidt is still a major Alphabet shareholder, and retains special Class B shares that give him additional voting powers. Cofounders Larry Page and Sergey Brin <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/google-larry-page-sergey-brin-still-majority-control-alphabet-2019-12">still own controlling shares between them</a>, but have effectively disappeared from view since handing over the reins to current CEO Sundar Pichai.</p><p>In a call with reporters on Tuesday, a DOJ official refused to comment on whether the department had contacted Larry Page as part of the investigation.&#160;</p>
                  </div>