--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/music/2020/10/13/ellen_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqZi7gvsi17RyR_riQK5LfvQJRqgtWBzmTFLuDdxqDcuU.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  From Ellen to R Kelly: what happens to celebrity lookalikes when their star gets cancelled? 
description: > 
  Lutrell’s agent had shared an audition tape of Lutrell as Ellen with a producer on the show.“It doesn't matter what I do, I bring Ellen.” Lutrell and DeGeneres go everywhere together.On August 14 2014, the police raided the home of Cliff Richard in relation to claims of sexual abuse dating back to 1985.So, when the BBC televised the raid, Sir Cliff Richard was, by today’s standards, cancelled.“Let me just challenge that gently,” says Chris Wright, who performs in a Cliff Richard tribute band. 
date: 1603090905.758403 
--- 
<div><p>Lutrell&#8217;s agent had shared an audition tape of Lutrell as Ellen with a producer on the show. For 90 or so toe-curling seconds DeGeneres mocked Lutrell&#8217;s audition to her audience of four million. Lutrell ended up in therapy and describes the event as, &#8220;very, very bullying, very mean spirited.&#8221; Lookalikes panic when they see their celebrity&#8217;s name trending on Twitter. Oh God, what have they done? If the celebrity had been accused of bullying their mind might jump to worries over cancelled bookings and potential loss of earnings. Dawn Lutrell just felt relieved. &#8220;Newsflash!&#8221; she thought, &#8220;Ellen's kind of mean-spirited and a bully&#8221;. Now everyone else knew.&#160; &#160;</p>
<p>Lutrell was &#8220;heartbroken&#8221; after the woman she proudly looked like laughed at her. Still, she worried that she had taken it too personally, until she heard the revelations this summer. She felt not quite vindicated, but not justified either. &#8220;I just kind of felt like I can move on now. Ellen got her deal. And, apparently, I'm just a little more intuitive than the rest.&#8221;&#160;Lutrell turned down much more work than she accepted as an Ellen impersonator. She thought that one day Ellen would invite her on and say, &#8220;You're not making this a cash cow. Like, I respect that.&#8221;</p>
<p>But after, the show thing, she thought. &#8220;'I&#8217;ve always wanted Ellen to see what I've done and respect it. &#160;Now that's gone? Show me the money! &#160;Show me the money. It has nothing to do with her anymore.&#8221;&#160; For a long time, Lutrell enjoyed the Ellen DeGeneres comparison, but looking like DeGeneres tipped over from being interesting to being defining. &#8220;Even my own mother says, the only reason I watch Ellen is because I feel like I'm spending an hour with you,&#8221;she adds.&#160;</p>
<p>Lutrell hasn&#8217;t ever attempted to distance herself from DeGeneres, principally because she doesn&#8217;t think she can. &#8220;It doesn't matter what I do, I bring Ellen.&#8221; Lutrell and DeGeneres go everywhere together. So, despite the show thing and despite the recent allegations made against DeGeneres and her show, Lutrell has decided that she can&#8217;t live with someone she doesn&#8217;t like.</p>
<p>Lutrell is still open for bookings. &#8220;In my personal opinion [Ellen] is an icon in the gay community. She has been very, very generous and she's done a lot of good things. If I show up tomorrow as Ellen, that&#8217;s the Ellen I bring,&#8221; she explains.&#160;After mass criticism, the show has made the &#8220;necessary changes&#8221;, according to DeGeneres. It would appear that The Ellen Show was cancelled into action. &#160;And it&#8217;s easy to think of cancel culture as a social good when obvious wrongs are being righted. But what about when the mob switch their pitchforks for hashtags and go after the wrong person?&#160; &#160;</p>
<p>On August 14 2014, the police raided the home of Cliff Richard in relation to claims of sexual abuse dating back to 1985. In the wake of the Jimmy Saville scandal the mantra of the day was, You Will Be Believed. So, when the BBC televised the raid, Sir Cliff Richard was, by today&#8217;s standards, cancelled.&#160; &#160;</p>
<p>&#8220;Let me just challenge that gently,&#8221; says Chris Wright, who performs in a Cliff Richard tribute band. &#8220;I think that within his fan base, they were probably so loyal that there wasn't a backlash.&#8221; Perhaps within his fanbase, but the public condemned him? Again, Wright isn&#8217;t so sure, &#8220;I think he had the benefit of widespread public sympathy, not just in the fan base. I think a lot of people were outraged that the man found out about these accusations by seeing his home raided on BBC TV.&#8221;&#160; &#160;</p>
<p>Chris Wright is perhaps too charitable. &#8220;I think the public said no, he's innocent until proven guilty,&#8221; he says. Sir Cliff was never arrested nor charged, and later won an apology and a &#163;2 million settlement from the BBC.&#160;Wright adds:&#160;&#8220;[Cliff&#8217;s] been touring again and playing to packed audiences. So, I'm not sure that he was a victim of the cancelled culture and we sure never experienced it.&#8221;&#160; &#160;</p>
</div>