--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/music/2020/10/10/TELEMMGLPICT000241521394_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bqac4LLIY-E3nBIQI9WQ8E9SnW8BLq_9yFhLlXda78vfw.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  From the West End to the gig economy: how Britain's top musicians are struggling to survive 
description: > 
  His CV reads like a topography of West End musical successes: conductor of Miss Saigon here; musical director of the UK tour of Mary Poppins there.Nor was he eligible for the Self-Employment Income Support Scheme (SEISS) since his earnings were above the £50,000 threshold.His advice was to sell the house.”His is not an uncommon story among Britain’s professional musicians, the vast majority of whom work as freelancers.Most freelance musicians earn in the low £20,000s so 20 per cent of that is not enough to live on.Not to mention the associated impact of live music on pubs and restaurants in the West End.” 
date: 1602467899.1307962 
--- 
For several weekends during this summer Steve Moss would leave his home in Harpenden for King’s Cross St Pancras to embark on a 12-hour shift directing passengers to the correct platforms. “I would work Saturday and Sunday, and my wife would work Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday,” he says. “We were paid a fraction more than £10 an hour. But we needed the money.”

Moss, who has two small children aged four and five, isn’t turning his nose up at such work, but only a few months previously he’d been spending most evenings a week down the road at Shaftsbury Avenue in his role as musical director of the hit new production of Les Misérables. His CV reads like a topography of West End musical successes: conductor of Miss Saigon here; musical director of the UK tour of Mary Poppins there. He is an accomplished clarinettist and pianist, yet since March 16, when Boris Johnson advised all theatres to close, he has earned not a penny from his job. Nor was he eligible for the Self-Employment Income Support Scheme (SEISS) since his earnings were above the £50,000 threshold. “It’s been impossible,” he says. “I was on the phone to my mortgage adviser the other day, asking whether I could take another mortgage holiday. His advice was to sell the house.”

His is not an uncommon story among Britain’s professional musicians, the vast majority of whom work as freelancers. Falling between the gaps of the Government’s two principal support packages – the job furlough scheme and the SEISS – players, from symphony orchestra soloists to veterans of the West End pit, have been forced to stack supermarket shelves, work on building sites and take on jobs as motorbike couriers to keep their heads, and their families’ heads, above water.

On Tuesday, 400 of those affected gathered in Parliament Square to raise the profile of their plight. Maintaining a safe distance between each other, they played 20 per cent of Mars by Holst and were then silent for two minutes, to symbolise the new self-employed grant, which pays just 20 percent of a person’s earnings, and the large number of freelancers who receive nothing from the SEISS at all. The protest was organised by violinist Jessie Murphy, with the help of grassroots campaigns We Make Events and Let Music Live. A founder member of two string quartets who works regularly with Sophie Ellis-Bextor and Michael Bublé, she had never organised anything like this, but when her final remaining bit of work for this year was cancelled three weeks ago, taking her lost earnings in 2020 to £30,000, she knew she couldn’t take it lying down.

“I’ve been surviving on savings and money from the grant but I’m now facing a cliff edge,” she says. “I just thought, ‘We need to stand up and be counted’. Most freelance musicians earn in the low £20,000s so 20 per cent of that is not enough to live on. There is a perception in the UK that the arts are a bit indulgent. A hobby. But we are highly skilled professionals who help prop up multiple other industries, from festivals to cultural events to conferences to weddings. Not to mention the associated impact of live music on pubs and restaurants in the West End.”