--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://news.files.bbci.co.uk/include/extra/shorthand/assets/sport/1g500y2qln/assets/lZMlrEVX3m/kapernick-illustration-2560x1440-2560x1440.jpeg 
title: > 
  From Trayvon Martin to Colin Kaepernick 
description: > 
  In August 2016, San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began kneeling during pre-game national anthems to protest about racial injustice and police brutality.Blake, a black man, was shot seven times in the back by police in Kenosha, Wisconsin.Since the death of George Floyd in May, protests in support of the Black Lives Matter movement have become the norm in sports around the world.Behind each powerful moment of protest is the death of a black man, woman or child.This is the story of sport in the Black Lives Matter movement. 
date: 1603156933.392725 
--- 
<div><p class>In August 2016, San Francisco 49ers quarterback Colin Kaepernick began kneeling during pre-game national anthems to protest about racial injustice and police brutality.</p><p class>His actions made headlines around the world, attracted criticism from the president of the United States, and eventually left him without a team.</p><p class>Four years on, sport in the US came to a standstill last week following the shooting of Jacob Blake.</p><p class>Blake, a black man, was shot seven times in the back by police in Kenosha, Wisconsin.</p><p class>Since the death of George Floyd in May, protests in support of the Black Lives Matter movement have become the norm in sports around the world. In June, the NFL said it had been "wrong for not listening to players earlier" and encouraged "all to speak out and peacefully protest".</p><p class>It is now the sport stars who don&#8217;t 'take a knee' that make the headlines.</p><p class>You&#8217;d be forgiven for thinking this all began with Kaepernick. His protests are synonymous with the Black Lives Matter movement, and he will go down in history as the man who brought awareness to a global sporting audience.</p><p class>But athletes, including some of the world's biggest names, have been using their platform to support it &#8211; and protest against police brutality &#8211; since 2012.</p><p class>Behind each powerful moment of protest is the death of a black man, woman or child.</p><p class>Here we look at some of the key protests, and the deaths that led to them. This is the story of sport in the Black Lives Matter movement.</p><h4 class="Theme-Layer-BodyText-Heading-xs"><strong>Trigger warning: includes police brutality and violence.&#160;</strong></h4><p class="InlineElement InlineElement--Divider__container "></p><p class></p></div>