--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f904982d25aab0018402c92?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  General Motors' $20 billion shift to EVs is just another example of how the path to a greener auto industry is paved with crude-oil profits 
description: > 
  General Motors recently announced a new "Ultium" battery system that's expected to drop consumer costs for next-generation electric vehicles, after announcing its ambitious plans to add 20 electric vehicles by 2023.In March, General Motors announced further details surrounding its ambitious plan to add a whopping 20 electric vehicles to its current mainstream lineup by the year 2023.Trucks, trucks, trucksGM plans to spend $20 billion on its entire EV initiative from now through 2025, a figure confirmed by Barra this September.In 2019, General Motors sold just over 2.8 million vehicles in the United States.General Motors has placed itself at a crossroads. 
keywords: > 
  evs, shift, path, greener, paved, ultium, profits, ev, company, electric, vehicles, industry, general, example, truck, trucks, motors, gm 
date: 1603376777.9523218 
--- 
<div><p class="category-stamp">
                          
                             
                        
                        <p class="svg-word"></p>                      </p>

                      <ul class="summary-list">
<li>General Motors recently announced a new "Ultium" battery system that's expected to drop consumer costs for next-generation electric vehicles, after announcing its ambitious plans to add 20 electric vehicles by 2023.</li>
<li>The American car manufacturer stated that the $20 billion Ultium program will be funded by its "strong and profitable truck franchise."</li>
<li>The contradictory move indicates that GM has no plans to turn away from its crude-oil profits and reliance on fossil fuels despite its best efforts to ramp up EVs.</li>
<li>While it may be a while before battery-electric cars can turn a profit, only time will tell whether history will repeat itself or we'll enter a new era for automakers.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-transportation-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-transportation-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>In March, General Motors announced further details surrounding its <a href="https://www.caranddriver.com/news/a31226611/gm-ultium-electric-vehicle-battery-revealed/">ambitious plan to add a whopping 20 electric vehicles to its current mainstream lineup</a> by the year 2023. It's a radical about-face for a company that failed to make much market headway with EVs in the years following the introduction of the Chevrolet Volt and Chevrolet Bolt, which were products of its <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/gm-mary-barra-management-helped-save-automaker-2018-10">late-2000s bankruptcy reorganization</a>.</p><p>While showrooms might have been relatively empty of battery-motivated product over the course of the past decade, GM's engineering teams were working hard behind the scenes on a new modular platform intended to power its next generation of electric cars, trucks, and SUVs. It was a necessary step, as the <a href="https://www.cnn.com/2019/11/25/perspectives/gm-electric-cars/index.html">economies of scale associated with internal-combustion automobiles have long eluded EV lineups</a>. This leads to a vicious circle of higher-than-average materials and assembly costs combined with expensive sticker prices that tamp down interest from everyday buyers on a budget.</p><p>With the new "Ultium" battery system powering its third-generation electric tech, General Motors plans on placing electric vehicles within reach of the average driver <a href="https://media.gm.com/media/us/en/gm/home.detail.html/content/Pages/news/us/en/2020/mar/0304-ev.html">by dropping the cost per kilowatt-hour below $100</a>, which will push the consumer cost of EVs close to those of entry-level gas vehicles.&#160;</p><p>"What we have done is build a multi-brand, multi-segment EV strategy with economies of scale that rival our full-size truck business with much less complexity and even more flexibility," said GM CEO Mary Barra <a href="https://media.gm.com/media/us/en/gm/news.detail.html/content/Pages/news/us/en/2020/mar/0304-ev.html">in announcing the initiative.</a></p><p>Further EV revelations this past summer described a dozen specific models, and although the charge will be led by high-margin luxury models like the <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/gm-electric-car-strategy-a-risky-bet-experts-say-2020-8">GMC Hummer electric pickup and the Cadillac Lyric SUV</a>, there's also a next-generation Bolt from Chevrolet (which will transition into a pure crossover), along with an electric pickup and a mid-size SUV bearing the bowtie badge. Further sweetening the pot in terms of potential earnings will be a heavy investment in electric-powered Buicks, which have a deep sales base in the Chinese market.</p><p>Not included in the PR materials surrounding the Ultium announcement, however, was any discussion of how GM bankrolled its way to this EV inflection point, or how it planned to continue funding what the market's track record has shown will be a traditionally slow adoption rate for these new electric options.&#160;</p><p>That would come later, in September of the same year, when Barra <a href="https://seekingalpha.com/article/4374255-general-motors-co-gm-ceo-mary-barra-presents-rbc-capital-markets-global-industrials-virtual">addressed a Royal Bank of Canada conference</a>, stating that GM would be "leveraging our strong and profitable truck franchise" to fund the Ultium program. As with every initiative taken by the company over the past three decades, the path to GM's electric future is paved with crude-oil profits &#8212; specifically, the continued sales of gas-guzzling pickup trucks and SUVs.</p><h2><strong>Trucks, trucks, trucks</strong></h2><p>GM <a href="https://www.cnbc.com/2020/03/04/gm-to-spend-20-billion-on-new-electric-autonomous-vehicles.html">plans to spend $20 billion on its entire EV initiative from now through 2025</a>, a figure confirmed by Barra this September. Any clear-eyed view of Detroit's profit-loss sheets easily identifies full-size trucks and their SUV cousins as <a href="https://www.autoweek.com/news/a1714156/light-trucks-take-record-69-us-market/">being the clear financial drivers at every major automaker in the country</a>, with GM no different than any of its rivals.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-transportation-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-transportation-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>It would be a mistake to think that the company's new focus on electric vehicles is part of an overall strategy to shift the company away from a reliance on fossil fuels. In fact, like Ford and Fiat-Chrysler, General Motors has followed its corporate colleagues in the exact opposite direction, <a href="https://www.marketplace.org/2018/11/26/why-american-car-companies-are-no-longer-selling-cars/">shuttering entire sedan, coupe, and hatchback product lines</a> in favor of the much higher margins found on the thirstiest segments in the industry.</p><p>In 2019, General Motors sold just over 2.8 million vehicles in the United States. <a href="https://media.gm.com/media/us/en/gm/news.detail.html/content/Pages/news/us/en/2020/jan/0103-gmsales.html">More than 60% of those were SUVs, crossovers, and full-size trucks</a>, with a fairly even split right down the middle between people movers and pickups. Combining all of its product lines across light- and heavy-duty buyers, GM sells more trucks than any other American manufacturer. In fact, large vehicles in these classes <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-gm-suvs/gm-doubles-down-on-big-suvs-to-pay-for-tomorrows-electric-cars-idUSKBN1YE2U7">account for a whopping 72% of the company's North American profits</a>.</p><p>Contrast this against the more modest BEV3 announcement, and the conclusion is obvious. General Motors currently has no intention of fully turning away from the economic engine that has been driving the company toward greater and greater truck sales, regardless of the image projected by Ultium.&#160;</p><p>An overall strategy aimed at reducing the effects of fossil fuel consumption on global warming and resource depletion would take the form of a cohesive hybrid, battery-electric, and fuel-efficient sedan and hatchback lineup. Instead, GM has doubled down on its most egregious environmental offenders in a parallel program to its EV efforts.</p><h2><strong>Greenbacks or green future?</strong></h2><p>General Motors has placed itself at a crossroads. On the one hand, the company has recognized that gasoline and diesel vehicles, while perhaps never completely leaving the scene, will in the future be pushed to the margins as new energy technologies take a larger role in the economy. To that end, it's decided to finally get serious about battery electric vehicles and spend significant funds on developing models that may, one day in the future, prove to be profitable.</p><p>At the same time, GM's brain trust isn't going to turn its back on the lucrative advantage it enjoys in America's most popular vehicle segments. With few other options as automakers the world over squeeze sedans from the showrooms, buyers are turning in droves to trucks and SUVs, and General Motors wants and needs every last dollar it can get before the music stops and the lights go out on the sport-utility party.</p><p>How can we be so sure? Because this has all happened before. The Chevrolet Volt mentioned above was intended to be the tip of the electrification spear <a href="https://www.csmonitor.com/Environment/Bright-Green/2008/1203/seeking-34-billion-from-congress-automakers-promise-electric-cars">from a bankrupt automaker that in 2009 pledged</a> it would lead the way in developing fuel-efficient vehicles as a condition of receiving federal bailout money following the global economic crisis. <a href="https://www.michigancapitolconfidential.com/22654">That never happened</a>, as the SUV revolution proved to be far too tempting &#8212; and oversight of government financial relief conditions was significantly hands-off &#8212; to stem the shift toward increasingly larger trucks.</p><p>A future General Motors may very well <a href="https://www.reuters.com/article/us-gm-electric-insight/gm-races-to-build-a-formula-for-profitable-electric-cars-idUSKBN1EY0GG">find itself in a situation where battery-electric vehicles are generating profits</a>, rather than sucking down dollars via R&amp;D costs and subsidized sales prices, and choose to pursue its fortunes in a greener direction. This is particularly true if the company can make good on Barra's optimistic view of its electric truck prospects, which she feels can "<a href="https://seekingalpha.com/article/4374255-general-motors-co-gm-ceo-mary-barra-presents-rbc-capital-markets-global-industrials-virtual">leverage the success</a>" already seen on the internal combustion side of the ledger.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-transportation-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-transportation-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>As a publicly traded corporation, however, one cannot expect the impetus for that decision to come from anywhere other than the balance sheet. As intriguing as GM's current interest in EVs might be, only time will tell whether we're watching a rerun of the last decade or witnessing the true birth of a new line of business for America's largest automaker.</p>
                  </div>