--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/men/2020/10/21/ss-2020-10-21-16-6_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqVzuuqpFlyLIwiB6NTmJwfSVWeZ_vEN7c6bHu2jJnT8.png?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Has Britain been driven to the brink of a Covid civil war? 
description: > 
  Lancashire and Merseyside were placed in Tier 3.Lancashire was livid because, while its gyms were allowed to stay open, its soft play centres were ordered to close.And Merseyside was livid because, while its soft play centres were allowed to stay open, its gyms were ordered to close.Both areas were dumped in the same tier – but were told to follow different rules.The ball pools of Merseyside would have been full of bodybuilders – and Lancashire would have ended up with some very muscular toddlers. 
keywords: > 
  burnham, war, lancashire, britain, ministers, driven, merseyside, row, open, civil, week, livid, tier, manchester, covid, brink 
date: 1603306151.1488154 
--- 
<div><p>Then there&#8217;s the chaos in north-west England. Lancashire and Merseyside were placed in Tier 3. Which they were both livid about &#8211; for opposite reasons. Lancashire was livid because, while its gyms were allowed to stay open, its soft play centres were ordered to close. And Merseyside was livid because, while its soft play centres were allowed to stay open, its gyms were ordered to close. Both areas were dumped in the same tier &#8211; but were told to follow different rules. The ball pools of Merseyside would have been full of bodybuilders &#8211; and Lancashire would have ended up with some very muscular toddlers. Thankfully, the Government has now agreed to align the Tier 3 rules from tomorrow.</p>
<p>The fight over money for Greater Manchester, however, has been a nightmare. The Government is <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/20/figures-dont-support-manchester-tier-3/">forcing the area into Tier Three</a>, which will be <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/21/pointless-imposition-tier-3-restrictions-will-leave-manchester/">ruinous for businesses</a>. So Andy Burnham, the local mayor, demanded financial support. He wanted &#163;65m. The Government said it would go no higher than &#163;60m &#8211; and then walked out of the talks. Cue very public acrimony, and televised scenes of Mr Burnham bellowing that Westminster had abandoned the North, while scandalised passers-by roared, &#8220;Disgrace!&#8221;</p>
<p>The Government may well accuse Mr Burnham of &#8220;playing politics&#8221;. But frankly it doesn&#8217;t matter even if he was. Ministers should have bunged him <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/politics/2020/10/20/greater-manchester-lockdown-talks-collapsed-just-5m/">the extra &#163;5m anyway</a>, straight off &#8211; simply to avoid the row. Because the row is so damaging. It&#8217;s undermined national unity, by setting one part of the country against another. It&#8217;s made people in Manchester think: &#8220;Those swindlers down in London don&#8217;t care about us. Levelling up? You must be joking.&#8221;</p>
<p>And anyway, to the Treasury, &#163;5m is a drop on the ocean. The floundering Test and Trace system is costing &#163;12 billion &#8211; with consultants pocketing around &#163;7,000 a day. Maybe everyone in Manchester should move into consultancy.</p>
<p>Yesterday the Government confirmed that it would stump up &#163;60m. But the resentment caused by the row will continue to burn.</p>
<p>And that&#8217;s not the week&#8217;s only damaging row. There&#8217;s the one about free school meal vouchers to cover half-term. Again, ministers should have paid up straight away&#160;to avoid an ugly fight. Half-term is only a week, it would have rekindled that vital sense of being &#8220;all in it together&#8221;, and it would have helped persuade voters that when Rishi Sunak promised to &#8220;do whatever it takes&#8221;, he actually meant it.</p>
<p>Anyway, what did ministers gain by refusing? Did they imagine it would be popular? How many voters did they think would open the paper over breakfast and exclaim, &#8220;Finally, Marjorie! Amid all this doom and gloom, some good news. A load of children are going to be underfed for a week. Hopefully this will teach them to be born into better-off families in future.&#8221;</p>
<p>&#8220;Indeed, Geoffrey. Although personally I blame the parents. Quite frankly, you shouldn&#8217;t have children if you&#8217;re unable to foresee a deadly pandemic that will cost you your job and make it impossible to find a new one.&#8221;</p>
<p>In short: national unity is clearly fraying. And I haven&#8217;t even mentioned Scotland yet. Look at the polls on independence. In the spring, No was still on top. Last week, Ipsos MORI put Yes 16 points ahead.</p>
<p>So that&#8217;s another cheering thought. Honestly. It&#8217;s enough to drive a man to drink.</p>
<p>My plan to lock us all down in pubs looks more attractive by the minute.</p>
<p><b>You can read Michael Deacon's column every Wednesday from 7pm at <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/authors/michael-deacon/">telegraph.co.uk</a>. Click <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/men/thinking-man/investigating-david-starkey-absurd-waste-police-time/">here </a>to read last week's column.</b></p>
</div>