--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f89c4a2d260780019341d9c?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Here's how 2 former Googlers convinced Johnson & Johnson to bet on the hottest part of healthcare and raised $47 million in the process 
description: > 
  Thirty Madison in August raised $47 million from investors including Johnson & Johnson Innovation.Thirty Madison treats 250,000 active patients with migraines, acid reflux, and hair loss with companies called Cove, Evans, and Keeps, respectively.Treatment costs, like a $25-per-month hair loss pill called finasteride, aren't included in the membership, and it's all generally self-pay."That's why you're seeing the rise of solutions that help patients beyond just one part of the health issue," Gutentag said.Here's the pitch deck that won Thirty Madison $47 million and backing from J&J, which omits one slide about the platform description that's no longer accurate, according to the company. 
date: 1603125879.7434375 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Thirty Madison in August raised $47 million from investors including Johnson &amp; Johnson Innovation.</li>
<li>The two-year old startup treats conditions like migraines with three distinct companies: Cove, Evens, and Keeps.</li>
<li>Like a handful of other chronic care, direct-to-consumer companies, Thirty Madison's business has shot up because of the pandemic, but also deep-seeded issues in the US healthcare system.</li>
<li><a href="http://newsletter.businessinsider.com/join/4np/newsletter.businessinsider.com/join/4np/insider-healthcare">For more stories like this, sign up here for Business Insider's daily healthcare newsletter.</a></li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-slideshow-healthcare-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-slideshow-healthcare-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>In the last year, Thirty Madison, a startup that prescribes medicine and does online doctors' visits, nabbed a partnership with Eli Lilly, and grew its subscriber base by threefold.</p><p>In August, <a href="https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/thirty-madison-raises-47m-in-series-b-financing-from-polaris-partners-johnson--johnson-innovation--jjdc-inc-and-existing-investors-301112415.html?tc=eml_cleartime">the startup raised $47 million</a> from venture firms Johnson &amp; Johnson Innovation, Polaris Partners, Maveron, and Northzone, bringing the startup's total funding to $70 million.&#160;</p><p>Thirty Madison treats 250,000 active patients with migraines, acid reflux, and hair loss with companies called Cove, Evans, and Keeps, respectively. It's rolling the new funds into a fourth treatment area, CEO and cofounder Steven Gutentag told Business Insider, declining to say which.</p><p>Similar to healthcare startups Ro, Hims, Livongo, and Omada, Thirty Madison's business has been helped by the recent move to telemedicine during the coronavirus pandemic. It'll pass 100 employees in November after doubling the team since March, according to the company. But it's also riding another wave, which is a deeper issue in healthcare, Gutentag said: Not enough people have consistent relationships with primary care physicians.&#160;</p><h2>A run-in with hair loss kicked off the idea for a startup that prescribes and ships medications to your door</h2><p>Gutentag and cofounder Demetri Karagas started the company in 2017 after working for Google's ads group for the search page. Neither of them had healthcare experience other than as patients and sons of doctors, but <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/keeps-direct-to-consumer-approach-to-hair-loss-racked-up-75-million-in-funding-2018-8">Gutentag's run in with hair loss gave the pair an idea</a>, he said.</p><p>"I've had Crohn's my whole life, or almost my whole life. Funny enough, that was not the issue that did it," Gutentag said. "It was more the vain health issue of hair loss that got me to wake up."&#160;</p><p>For the first time, he said, he found himself having to navigate the healthcare system alone.&#160;</p><p>Thirty Madison's goal is basically to spare patients the issue of "navigation" altogether by giving them treatment plans and long-term relationships with specialists. The startup is based in New York's Midtown neighborhood and is named after Madison Avenue.</p>
<p id="gpt-slideshow-healthcare-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-slideshow-healthcare-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>It offers memberships around $30 per month and messaging with doctors for up to $5 per month or $5 per visit, depending on the condition. Treatment costs, like a $25-per-month hair loss pill called finasteride, aren't included in the membership, and it's all generally self-pay.&#160;</p><p>The hope is to connect patients with an otherwise strained supply of specialists for conditions like migraines, Gutentag said. There's about 40 million people in the US who suffer from migraines, but fewer than 500 specialists, <a href="https://migraineresearchfoundation.org/about-migraine/migraine-facts/">per the Migraine Research Foundation</a>.&#160;</p><p>More than 60% of Thirty Madison's migraine patients have nine or more migraines per month, Gutentag said. As of August, 70% of them were seeing reductions in their severity, and 79% were visiting the ER less, <a href="https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/thirty-madison-raises-47m-in-series-b-financing-from-polaris-partners-johnson--johnson-innovation--jjdc-inc-and-existing-investors-301112415.html?tc=eml_cleartime">the company said in the funding announcement</a>.</p><h2><strong>How Thirty Madison convinced a pharma giant to invest in its model</strong></h2><p>Gutentag sees the model heading more towards Teladoc and Livongo's soon-to-be massive primary care network than Ro and Hims. In the recent funding round, he said investors, particularly Polaris and J&amp;J, wanted on board when they realized the company is building models of actually delivering care, not just consumer brands for drugs.</p><p>The startup's physicians are employed or contracted by Keeps Medical Group, and it sends drugs through the mail with pharmacies licensed in all 50 states, including Amazon's PillPack. It makes up a closed system for each condition that allows patients to get advice, treatment, and facetime with physicians all from the same platform, the cofounder said.</p><p>"That's why you're seeing the rise of solutions that help patients beyond just one part of the health issue," Gutentag said. "It's not just about me being a better doctor's office or a better pharmacy. It's about actually helping someone drive to a better outcome over a longer period of time."&#160;</p><p>Here's the pitch deck that won Thirty Madison $47 million and backing from J&amp;J, which omits one slide about the platform description that's no longer accurate, according to the company.</p>

                    </div>