--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f90a4142121130018740095?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Homeowners insurance claims spike at Halloween. Make sure you have the coverage you need, before you need it. 
description: > 
  If you are hosting a party and charging admission, check with your homeowners insurance because you may need additional coverage.Halloween-related crime increases homeowners insurance claimsTravelers noted a 26% increase in homeowners claims due to Halloween crime in 2018.Homeowners should review their homeowners insurance policies yearly to see what is covered.If you are charging admission to your home — haunted house — you should check your homeowners insurance policy and talk to your homeowners insurance agent, as this may count as a business activity and not be covered under your regular policy if someone is injured.If you are concerned whether you have proper coverage against liability and theft, contact your homeowners insurance agent and discuss your coverage before Halloween. 
keywords: > 
  claims, insider, mischief, insurance, spike, halloween, property, need, coverage, sure, damage, increase, homeowners 
date: 1603323205.9740098 
--- 
<div><p class="financial-disclaimer"><i>Personal Finance Insider writes about products, strategies, and tips to help you make smart decisions with your money. We may receive a small commission from our partners, like American Express, but our reporting and recommendations are always independent and objective.</i></p><ul class="summary-list"><li>Halloween mischief leads to an increase in claims and property damage for homeowners.</li><li>Homeowners should avoid fire and tripping hazards when putting up Halloween decorations.</li><li>If you are hosting a party and charging admission, check with your homeowners insurance because you may need additional coverage.</li><li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/personal-finance/best-homeowners-insurance-companies" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Read our picks for best homeowners insurance companies.</a></li></ul><p class="insider-raw-embed"></p><p>Homeowners beware: As kids look forward to candy and dressing up as their favorite characters, you can look forward to Halloween tricks, not treats.&#160;</p><p>A representative from Travelers Insurance told Business Insider in an email that homeowners insurance claims and damage to property increase at Halloween, between October 30 and November 1 &#8212; known as "mischief night." Even if you do not experience theft, a slip and fall at your home can trigger liability claims.</p><h2><strong>Halloween-related crime increases homeowners insurance claims&#160;</strong></h2><p>Travelers noted a 26% increase in homeowners claims due to Halloween crime in 2018.&#160;The claims included:</p><ul><li>Theft on premises&#160;</li><li>Mysterious disappearance&#160;</li><li>Theft off premises&#160;</li><li>Doors or windows broken or smashed&#160;</li><li>Contents or packages stolen from the porch</li></ul><p>Based on Travelers auto claims data from 2012-2018, "comprehensive auto claims increase by 13% during Halloween &#8212; specifically, vandalism-related auto claims increase by 40 percent during Halloween."&#160;</p><p>Homeowners should review their <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/personal-finance/questions-to-ask-about-home-insurance-2020-10#customers-want-more-from-their-homeowners-insurance-company">homeowners insurance</a> policies yearly to see what is covered. Due to an increase in Halloween-related crime, you might want to reach out to your agent to make sure you have sufficient coverage.&#160;</p><p class="insider-raw-embed"></p><h2><strong>How to protect your home at Halloween</strong></h2><p>Although the coronavirus pandemic has sidelined plans for most trick-or-treaters, some people may still hosting Halloween parties or outdoor gatherings. Besides Halloween pranks and mischief, Halloween decorations can be a fire or trip hazard for guests.&#160;</p><p><a href="https://www.travelers.com/resources/home/safety/halloween-safety-tips" target="_blank" rel="noopener">Travelers recommends</a> that homeowners practice these safety precautions before Halloween:</p><ul><li>Walk your property after dark and survey to minimize potential dangers.</li><li>Clear walkways of any debris &#8212; fallen leaves, extension cords, stakes &#8212; that pose a tripping hazard.</li><li>Make sure your front yard and walkways are well lit.</li><li>For indoor decorations, make sure electrical outlets are not overloaded.</li><li>Avoid fire starters like: open flames, candles (use battery-operated instead), dried flowers, cornstalks, and crepe paper. Also, do not put fabric over light bulbs, as it is a fire hazard.</li><li>Do not nail or staple extension cords or electrical wires in a way that would damage it and potentially cause a fire.</li></ul><p>If you are charging admission to your home &#8212; haunted house &#8212; you should check your <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/personal-finance/questions-to-ask-about-home-insurance-2020-10#customers-want-more-from-their-homeowners-insurance-company">homeowners insurance policy</a> and talk to your homeowners insurance agent, as this may count as a business activity and not be covered under your regular policy if someone is injured. You may have to get additional coverage.</p><p>If you are concerned whether you have proper coverage against liability and theft, contact your homeowners insurance agent and discuss your coverage before Halloween.</p><p>If you're looking to switch your <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/personal-finance/best-homeowners-insurance-companies">homeowners insurance provider</a>, remember a cheap price doesn't mean good customer service. Focus on customer satisfaction rankings, like those from J.D. Power, and comparison shop. Business Insider has compiled <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/personal-finance/best-homeowners-insurance-companies" target="_blank" rel="noopener">a list of the best homeowners insurance companies</a> &#8212; you may want to start there.</p><p>&#160;</p>
                  </div>