--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.usnews.com/dims4/USNEWS/b1c0b36/2147483647/crop/2119x1377%2B0%2B0/resize/1200x1200%3E/quality/85/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmedia.beam.usnews.com%2Fba%2Fca%2F54a986344061bd593621ce0a8289%2F200324-stock.jpg 
title: > 
  How Would Rising Interest Rates Impact the Market? 
description: > 
  There are several implications interest rates can have on your investments.(Getty Images)It's no coincidence that U.S. stock markets have been making strong gains while interest rates have been trending lower.Interest rates have been dropping precipitously over the past two years.Last year the S&P 500 would gain about a 30% return as interest rates fell, and it continues to produce gains this year despite the global health crisis.Growth stocks have consistently outperformed since then, but will higher interest rates favor value stocks again? 
keywords: > 
  bonds, impact, stocks, rising, rates, interest, yield, etf, sector, value, higher, treasury, market 
date: 1603246448.5101292 
--- 
<div><p>There are several implications interest rates can have on your investments. (Getty Images)</p><p>It's no coincidence that U.S. <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/investing-advice/slideshows/hedging-strategies-for-a-potential-stock-market-correction/">stock markets</a> have been making strong gains while interest rates have been trending lower. </p><p>Interest rates have been dropping precipitously over the past two years. The 10- year U.S. Treasury yield was yielding more than 3% in November 2018 but fell to 0.52% in August 2020, and was trading at 0.75% at the time of this writing.</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p>Last year the S&amp;P 500 would gain about a 30% return as <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/portfolio-management/slideshows/ways-to-increase-returns-with-low-interest-rates">interest rates fell,</a> and it continues to produce gains this year despite the global health crisis.</p><p>Market practitioners use the phrase &#8220;TINA,&#8221; which is an acronym for &#8220;there is no alternative" to the stock market. Trying to earn yield from a fixed-income instrument has become increasingly <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/investing-101/articles/how-to-recover-after-loss-in-the-stock-market">challenging</a>, demanding some investors to accept either greater credit risk, such as in <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/funds/slideshows/best-high-yield-bond-funds">high-yield bonds,</a> or longer duration. To an investor, a longer duration means you do not get all your money back until a later date, which may not be desirable.</p><p>Although U.S. Treasury bonds offer a limited yield, as mentioned by the 0.75% in the 10-year U.S. Treasury last month, there is a degree of safety in the return of capital with the federal government issuing the bonds.</p><p>High-yield bonds typically invest in companies with lesser fundamentals, which don't have the government guarantee attached. For example, the SPDR Bloomberg Barclays High Yield Bond ETF (ticker: <a href="https://money.usnews.com/funds/etfs/high-yield-bond/spdr-blmbg-barclays-high-yield-bd-etf/jnk">JNK</a>) has more than 99% of its fund invested in bonds. Fidelity shows 99.6% of bonds have a credit rating of high-yield. Those bonds include ones issued by Carnival Corporation (CCL or CUK) and Caesars Entertainment (CZR).</p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Low Rate Benefits</h3></p><p>Many stock sectors have benefited from falling interest rates. One of the best performing sectors this year has been that of homebuilders. As represented by the iShares U.S. Home Construction ETF (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/funds/etfs/consumer-cyclical/ishares-us-home-construction-etf/itb">ITB</a>), the sector is up nearly 36% this year. Of note, this ETF was up around 39% last year and roughly 50% in 2017.</p><p id="text_lg" class="ad"></p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p>This is not bad performance, especially for those seeking real estate exposure, as not all real estate investments have performed as well. The Real Estate Select Sector SPDR ETF (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/funds/etfs/real-estate/real-estate-select-sector-spdr/xlre">XLRE</a>) is showing a loss this year by comparison.</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p>Certainly, low <a href="https://loans.usnews.com/articles/can-you-refinance-your-mortgage-online">mortgage rates</a> are benefiting the homebuilding sector. Over the past two years, the 30-year fixed mortgage rate has fallen by over 2%. The savings from lower mortgage rates is often reflected in discretionary spending. </p><p>Despite the economic troubles this year, consumers have been active, as evidenced by aggregate retail sales increasing 5.4% over the past 12 months. </p><p>In tandem with increased consumer spending is the performance of the Consumer Discretionary Select Sector SPDR ETF (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/funds/etfs/consumer-cyclical/consumer-discret-sel-sect-spdr-etf/xly">XLY</a>), which is up 24% year-to-date and increased by more than 28% in 2019.</p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Stocks for Higher Rates</h3></p><p><br>Between 2002 and 2008, value stocks consistently outperformed growth stocks. During that time, the iShares Russell 1000 Value ETF (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/funds/etfs/large-value/ishares-russell-1000-value-etf/iwd">IWD</a>) outperformed the iShares Russell 1000 Growth ETF (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/funds/etfs/large-growth/ishares-russell-1000-growth-etf/iwf">IWF</a>) each year except 2007.</p><p>Growth stocks have consistently outperformed since then, but will higher interest rates favor value stocks again?</p><p>Comparing the sector holdings of these two exchange-traded funds shows they offer similar sector exposure in some cases. For example, they both have about a 14% allocation to health care stocks and about 10% allocation to the communication sector. The major differences are in the industrial and <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stock-market-news/articles/best-tech-stocks-to-buy-this-month">technology sectors</a>, where IWF has a much higher exposure to technology and IWD has a higher allocation to the industrial sector.</p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Higher Rates</h3></p><p>The U.S. 10-year Treasury rate hit 0.52% in July, but it has rebounded, and by the end of September it had inched higher to near 0.7%. The move up to 0.7% may not sound like much, but remember, markets are forward-looking and do not wait for confirmation to make price adjustments.</p><p>Projecting to next year, if the economy is <a href="https://money.usnews.com/money/blogs/the-smarter-mutual-fund-investor/articles/with-the-market-rebound-should-you-sell">rebounding</a> and the health crisis has waned, what is the likelihood that the 10-year U.S. Treasury yield will remain well below 1%?</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p>In the fourth quarter of 2018, when the Federal Reserve was still hiking its federal fund rate, the stock market suffered a correction, with value stocks generally outperforming growth stocks.</p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Takeaway</h3></p><p>Interest rates are near historically low levels. They are so low that any rise in rates will almost be hard to notice by the average investor. That said, we have already seen this year that markets can react in a hurry, typically far faster than one can anticipate. Interest rates may have only inched higher, but if a trend results, portfolios may need to be repositioned.<br></p></div>