--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/gardening/2020/10/16/SD-first-person-HR_1_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bqek9vKm18v_rkIPH9w2GMNvJhx-NoQh9kk8bkhufqcBc.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  How an onset of 'houseplant mania' at the Garden Museum turned me into a convert 
description: > 
  At home, I’d generally considered cultivating soil indoors a bit of a busman’s holiday; at work I’d resisted endorsing a perceived faddiness in the resurgence of houseplant popularity.Above all, conditions in that spot are not ideal: dry, dimly lit and, during the winter, underfloor-heated.Embracing the challenge, however, as well as the phenomenon of “houseplant mania” – from a purely curatorial perspective, of course – initiated an appreciation that has since blossomed into a love affair.This pursuit of organic-looking indoor plants has led me to trial some more typically associated with the garden, for example pelargoniums, cannas and agaves.It is this carefree experimentation that has got me hooked, and I think underpins the surging millennial thirst for houseplants more generally. 
keywords: > 
  little, museum, houseplant, plants, turned, garden, mania, houseplants, water, good, stems, plant, nephrolepis, convert, onset 
date: 1603268082.8421333 
--- 
<div><p>There&#8217;s a certain satisfaction watching <a href="https://gardenmuseum.org.uk/">Garden Museum</a> visitors stop to photograph the plants grouped at one corner of our cloister passageway as, in truth, it was with some reluctance that I first began growing them.</p>
<p>At home, I&#8217;d generally considered cultivating soil indoors a bit of a busman&#8217;s holiday; at work I&#8217;d resisted endorsing a perceived faddiness in the resurgence of houseplant popularity.</p>
<p>Above all, conditions in that spot are not ideal: dry, dimly lit and, during the winter, underfloor-heated. Embracing the challenge, however, as well as the phenomenon of &#8220;houseplant mania&#8221; &#8211; from a purely curatorial perspective, of course &#8211; initiated an appreciation that has since blossomed into a love affair. Consider me a convert.</p>
<p>First through the door were a pair of feathery asparagus ferns (Asparagus setaceus), 10cm tall. Now spreading a good metre (bless their wandering fronds) they each fill a weighty pot.</p>
<p>More followed: the darker, fluffier A. densiflorus &#8216;Myriocladus&#8217;; two lime-green Boston ferns (Nephrolepis exaltata) and a &#8220;bird&#8217;s nest&#8221; fern that succumbed to arid conditions inhospitable for a bathroom dweller. This was the first casualty of the survival-of-the-fittest methodology by which I govern the museum&#8217;s houseplant collection (further failures, I&#8217;m unashamed to admit, were an aloe vera, a plectranthus and a waning colocasia).</p>
<p>Like any good border, a few large plants &#8211; strelitzia, fan palm (Chamaerops humilis) and the aforementioned nephrolepis &#8211; make bold statements, while repetition ties the rabble together. It ended up a mixture of the unusual and bog-standard: a cane begonia with dark, glossy leaves and ever-questing stems, and the homeware superstore classic, Dracaena marginata.</p>
<p>The former, Begonia &#8216;Thurstonii&#8217;, was brought in as a cutting by museum volunteer Philip, and has since produced enormous offspring by way of stem cuttings rooted in water. This virile foliage adds cohesion, offering a fantastic backdrop to the loud pink of Coleus scutellarioides or the near-perpetual orange flowers of Canna x generalis.</p>
<p>The dracaenas arrived as furnishing for an evening event, but were absorbed into my jungle. I have a strong aversion to the conveyor belt uniformity that renders many houseplants devoid of character, so a little pruning was required to vary heights, and rooting offcuts to produce additional lower-tier plants.</p>
<p>The same sensibility prompted me to unwind the plaited stems of a Guiana chestnut (Pachira aquatica) and thin those of multicoloured Stromanthe sanguinea &#8211; a sensible treatment also for any freakishly &#8220;bushy&#8221; calathea, ficus or Kentia palm.</p>
<p>This pursuit of organic-looking indoor plants has led me to trial some more typically associated with the garden, for example pelargoniums, cannas and agaves. While Canna &#8216;Australia&#8217; shot for the roof, toppled and never regained its composure, Agave americana &#8216;Variegata&#8217; has proven an unlikely success, content in the dry air. It is this carefree experimentation that has got me hooked, and I think underpins the surging millennial thirst for houseplants more generally.</p>
<p>Undoubtedly, sentiment plays a role, too &#8211; houseplants are so often bestowed with a tender back story, whether gifted by a friend, inherited from family or rescued from a skip. I dote on a little clivia lily as it was grown from seed given to me by a museum neighbour; our crassula is a cutting from the money plant that belonged to the artist and gardener Derek Jarman.</p>
<p>Advice gleaned from my dabbling would be this: choose a simple pot (let the plant do the talking) and good compost (moisture-retentive but not &#8220;cloggy&#8221;); allow water to drain before replenishing. Underplant large specimens with attractive low-growers such as Oxalis triangularis, tradescantia or maidenhair fern (these will soak up excess water that might otherwise breed gnats or fungus); group plants where possible to raise humidity levels, avoiding radiators and direct sunlight.</p>
<p>Above all, enjoy the failures with the successes: they&#8217;re only houseplants, after all!</p>
</div>