--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://video-images.vice.com//articles/5f89ac6e65f1ec009654e7ac/lede/1602858154093-how-to-host-a-safeish-microfriendsgiving-this-yearledeandsocialhf.jpeg?image-resize-opts=Y3JvcD0xeHc6MC40ODN4aDsweHcsMHhoJnJlc2l6ZT0xMjAwOiomcmVzaXplPTEyMDA6Kg 
title: > 
  How to Have a Safe-ish Friendsgiving This Year 
description: > 
  But depending on the climate where you live, an outdoor dinner may not be the most comfortable experience, even with the help of blankets and space heaters.However, it is possible to have a safe indoor micro-Friendsgiving, Wender said, but you’ll have to do a significant amount of planning—and then adhere to those plans.“Everything you can do outdoors, do outdoors.”Now that our local COVID bubbles have become our support system, Friendsgiving takes on more importance than ever.People have been gathering in person to various extents for months now, so Friendsgiving may seem like a natural way to celebrate for some friend groups.If you’re thinking of rallying your chosen family for a small Friendsgiving dinner, here’s how to make sure everyone is safe and well-fed. 
date: 1603132132.897388 
--- 
<div><p>This year, however, any hope for a traditional holiday season has been thrown by the wayside. The pandemic has made in-person gathering, travel, and visiting with elderly or at-risk family members hazardous&#8212;not that sharing food with a bunch of people in the midst of a very contagious global health crisis is particularly appealing.</p><p>In the Before Times, typical Thanksgiving prep included coordinating travel plans back to your hometown or the abode of your partner&#8217;s somewhat distant relative; considering what side dish you&#8217;d have the best chance of pulling off; and mentally bracing for potentially uncomfortable dinner conversations.</p><p>But depending on the climate where you live, an outdoor dinner may not be the most comfortable experience, even with the help of blankets and space heaters. However, it is possible to have a safe indoor micro-Friendsgiving, Wender said, but you&#8217;ll have to do a significant amount of planning&#8212;and then adhere to those plans.</p><p>Without question, the safest bet for a micro-Friendsgiving is to hold it outside. According to the CDC&#8217;s holiday safety guidelines , an outdoor meal with friends and family within your community poses a moderate risk. &#8220;The air recirculates and it's much harder to be exposed to enough viral load to be infected,&#8221; Richard Wender, chair of the Department of Family Medicine and Community Health at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania, told VICE. &#8220;Everything you can do outdoors, do outdoors.&#8221;</p><p>Now that our local COVID bubbles have become our support system, Friendsgiving takes on more importance than ever. And if you&#8217;re located in a city or town where COVID-19 transmission is low, hosting a small dinner among friends can be a relatively low-risk way to celebrate the season&#8212;if you take precautions. Call it a micro-Friendsgiving: a very small get-together with your chosen family to share your gratitude for one another.</p><p>But given the year we&#8217;ve had, it&#8217;s reasonable to want to connect with loved ones and celebrate something. &#8220;You need a community together and you need your circle,&#8221; said San Francisco-based party planner Edward Perotti , who&#8217;s produced events for the likes of Ariana Grande and Nick Jonas.</p><p>Regardless of where you&#8217;re hosting your gathering, here are some general tips to keep in mind.</p><p>If your community percent positive rate is below the 3&#8211;5 percent threshold, you can start planning your micro-Friendsgiving. This should be a local event, meaning guests shouldn&#8217;t be traveling in from out of town&#8212;nearby friends only. However, should positivity rates climb the closer you get to Friendsgiving, or should anyone on the guest list start having any symptoms, hosts should be willing to cancel. No hard feelings: It&#8217;s just to keep everyone safe.</p><p>People have been gathering in person to various extents for months now, so Friendsgiving may seem like a natural way to celebrate for some friend groups. But you absolutely cannot be lax with everyone&#8217;s safety. As cases continue to rise in most of the country, in large part due to small gatherings according to the CDC , you should only host a micro-Friendsgiving under specific circumstances. First, check the community infection rate where you live. If more than 3-5 percent of tests taken in your town or city are positive , you shouldn&#8217;t gather with people outside your household.</p><p>If you&#8217;re thinking of rallying your chosen family for a small Friendsgiving dinner, here&#8217;s how to make sure everyone is safe and well-fed.</p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p><strong>Think about the guest list.</strong></p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>For both indoor and outdoor gatherings, be selective about who you invite to your micro-Friendsgiving, Wender said. Those who are already within your established COVID bubble and who <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/dyzxaz/talk-about-friends-safely-hang-out-with-no-mask-during-pandemic">you know are adhering to safety guidelines</a> are fair game. That friend who only sometimes wears masks and regularly attends indoor house parties (and posts about it on Instagram)? They should probably stay off the guest list. If there&#8217;s any chance that your outdoor gathering could transition to an indoor dinner due to weather, keep your guest list small enough to ensure everyone will have enough room to social distance inside, Perotti said.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Now is the time to show extra kindness to folks who may be in need of more social interaction, Swann said. If you&#8217;re stuck on who to invite, prioritize friends who live alone or have shared that they&#8217;re emotionally struggling. &#8220;Dive a little bit deeper and decide who needs to have more social connection,&#8221; etiquette expert <a href="https://www.elaineswann.com/">Elaine Swann</a> told VICE.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p><strong>Set safety protocols and share them in advance.</strong></p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Along with your invite&#8212;whether you send a text, email, or mail an invitation&#8212;should be a note about how many people you&#8217;re inviting and the safety guidelines everyone should expect to follow come Friendsgiving. (These will largely be the same for both indoor and outdoor gatherings.)</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>While <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/akz5vk/how-to-effectively-quarantine-according-to-expert-infectious-disease-specialist-covid-19">a strict two-week quarantine</a> isn&#8217;t necessary prior to your micro-Friendsgiving, Wender recommends hosts and guests be meticulously careful in their day-to-day activities for no less than 10 days before the event. This means avoiding crowds, always wearing a mask, paying attention to symptoms, and being honest about possible exposure&#8212;which are all things we should be doing anyway. Getting tested before the gathering won&#8217;t necessarily hurt, but, <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/dyzbxx/how-to-travel-vacation-as-safely-as-possible-covid-19-pandemic">as VICE has previously reported</a>, false negatives can happen, and testing should really be done in conjunction with limiting your exposure to other people. Both hosts and guests should be transparent about any symptoms they may have, regardless if they tested negative, and be willing to cancel if there&#8217;s any chance they might be sick.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p></div>