--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://video-images.vice.com//articles/5f906449b6fc64009a8358f9/lede/1603315525206-hard-to-say-holiday-1.jpeg?image-resize-opts=Y3JvcD0xeHc6MC45OTk3MDM3OTE0NjkxOTQzeGg7Y2VudGVyLGNlbnRlciZyZXNpemU9MTIwMDoqJnJlc2l6ZT0xMjAwOio 
title: > 
  How to Tell Your Family You're Not Coming Home for the Holidays 
description: > 
  The holidays tend to make people emotional, as does admitting that your kid is growing up and developing a life of their own.Not spending a major holiday with your family of origin for the first time is a rite of passage—for you and for them.So before you talk to your family, think about all of the reasons your plans make sense and are OK.If you’re feeling really guilty, you might even want to make a list—for your eyes only—with your thought process.Tell your family about your plans as soon as you’ve made a decision… or, if it makes sense, as soon as you start considering not going home. 
keywords: > 
  say, coming, plans, holidays, youre, theyll, soon, tell, likely, family, theres, sense 
date: 1603376817.8219845 
--- 
<div><p>The holidays tend to make people emotional, as does admitting that your kid is growing up and developing a life of their own. As such, these conversations can be super fraught.</p><p>Thanks, in part, to pop songs and treacly movies, there&#8217;s still a widespread belief that there&#8217;s no greater tragedy than not being &#8220;home&#8221; (whatever that means when you&#8217;re a grown-ass adult in the year 2020) for the holidays. Not spending a major holiday with your family of origin for the first time is a rite of passage&#8212;for you and for them.</p><p>Hard to Say is a column about delicate situations and difficult conversations, for people who wish they could hire a ghostwriter for all their texts.</p><p>Feeling confident in your decision is, I think, one of the most important aspects of communicating news someone else doesn&#8217;t want to hear. If you don&#8217;t feel right about it, you&#8217;re more likely to waver, over explain yourself, be talked out of it, or make excuses that are untrue or disingenuous. So before you talk to your family, think about all of the reasons your plans make sense and are OK. If you&#8217;re feeling really guilty, you might even want to make a list&#8212;for your eyes only&#8212;with your thought process. That might look something like&#8230;</p><p>If this year marks the first time that you&#8217;re not planning to spend the holidays with your folks&#8212;whether that&#8217;s because of the pandemic or for some other reason&#8212;and, uh, they don&#8217;t know that yet, here are some tips for telling them.</p><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Again, these aren&#8217;t thoughts to share with your family, necessarily&#8212;the point of this exercise is to help you stand firm if/when someone starts making emotional pleas for you to reconsider.</p>
</span><h2 class="article__body-heading__heading heading2"><span><p>Tell your family about your plans as soon as you&#8217;ve made a decision&#8230; or, if it makes sense, as soon as you start considering not going home.</p>
</span></h2><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>In general, it&#8217;s kind and courteous to let someone know as early as possible that you won&#8217;t be attending an event they&#8217;re expecting you at, and your family deserves that same respect. There&#8217;s a chance that they&#8217;ll make other plans as well&#8212;like booking a just-for-two vacation, making arrangements with friends, or simply cooking different foods&#8212;and the longer you delay, the more inconvenient and difficult it will be for them to have a holiday they feel good about. (And the better they feel about their alternative plans, the less likely it is to sting.) Also, the more time passes, the more instances there are likely to be in which they&#8217;ll say things like &#8220;we can do x in December when you&#8217;re home&#8221; and you&#8217;ll have to lie (either directly or by omission). You don&#8217;t want to find yourself in a situation where they are (understandably!) pissed at you for not saying something sooner. So communicate your &#8220;no&#8221; RSVP to them as soon as you make that decision.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>In some families, it might make sense to say something a little sooner&#8212;e.g., &#8220;I&#8217;m thinking about not coming home this year.&#8221; If they seem like the type who wants to emotionally prepare for something for a while, go for it. If, on the other hand, they are likely to badger you about it every day for two months, hoping to change your mind because the decision hasn&#8217;t been &#8220;officially&#8221; &#8220;made&#8221; yet, it&#8217;s fine to wait until you&#8217;re 100 percent sure.&#160;</p>
</span><h2 class="article__body-heading__heading heading2"><span><p>Expect that they&#8217;ll be a little hurt and disappointed when you tell them, and give them some time and space to process their feelings.&#160;</p>
</span></h2><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Remember that you&#8217;re going to get what you want here; let that win motivate you to be gracious about the fact that this isn&#8217;t the holiday they envisioned for themselves. That doesn&#8217;t mean you have to commit to spending the next three Christmases with them, or subject yourself to a 20-minute soliloquy about how you&#8217;ve broken your mother&#8217;s heart every day in November and December. But try to avoid the urge to talk them out of feeling upset.&#160;</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p></div>