--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/travel/2020/10/20/rona_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqdODRziddS8JXpVz-XfUVR2LvJF5WfpqnBZShRL_tOZw.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  I'm almost starting to think this whole pandemic really is a conspiracy 
description: > 
  Over the course of 2020, this pandemic has claimed 1.1 million lives; most of whom were elderly or already ill. Heart disease kills 17 million annually; cancer 9.6 million.Respiratory diseases, including bronchitis, pneumonia and emphysema take 2.5 million lives a year.Its host Alex, who has discussed this very question with many prominent scientists, sociologists and politicians, says their theories vary.Occum’s Razor would suggest that most politicians are merely too stubborn to concede they were wrong in their approach to this pandemic.Either that, or the conspiracy loonies are right: Elon Musk (or is it Bill Gates?) 
keywords: > 
  lives, lockdown, conspiracy, question, starting, politicians, world, pandemic, reality, razor, really, million, think, wrong, power, im 
date: 1603228042.9541547 
--- 
<div><p>Eight months on, my burning question remains unanswered. What is really going on? About 50 millon people die each year worldwide. Some deaths are preventable, others not. Over the course of 2020, this pandemic has claimed 1.1 million lives; most of whom&#160;were elderly or already ill. Heart disease kills 17 million annually; cancer 9.6 million. Respiratory diseases, including bronchitis, pneumonia and emphysema take 2.5 million lives a year.&#160;</p>
<p>Why then, are we still playing this ridiculously destructive game with healthy peoples&#8217; lives &#8211; a risky experiment&#160;that, as is starting to emerge, will very likely <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/19/must-start-recording-excess-deaths-caused-covid-myopia/">kill more people than it saves in the long run</a>?</p>
<p>My father, <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/comment/australia-coronavirus-lockdown-hysteria-overreaction/">an ardent lockdown sceptic</a>, reckons it has&#160;all turned into some sort of multi-national, anti-capitalist power grab.&#160;&#8220;Christianity,&#8221; he points out, based on &#8220;nonsensical&#8221; stories of a virgin birth, and a death-defying saviour, &#8220;successfully dominated the predominant part of the civilised world for the best part of two millennia. It was a power system, and its power trumped logic.&#8221;</p>
<p>I don&#8217;t believe there are darker forces at play here &#8211; surely <a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hanlon%27s_razor#:~:text=Hanlon's%20razor%20is%20a%20principle,unlikely%20explanations%20for%20human%20behavior.">Hanlon&#8217;s Razor</a> explains it? &#8211; but I do continue to puzzle over the motives of our world leaders as we stare down the barrel of yet more financially-ruinous lockdowns. This week I was a guest on <a href="https://escapefromlockdown.buzzsprout.com/1013854/5951587-episode-22-annabel-fenwick-elliott">Escape from Lockdown</a>, a podcast that features interviews with the hardiest of sceptics. Its host Alex, who has discussed this very question with many prominent scientists, sociologists and politicians,&#160;says&#160;their theories vary.</p>
<p>Good old fashioned peer pressure seems to play a big part (Boris Johnson initially stood firm on refusing to join the rest of Europe&#8217;s unprecedented, untested lockdown hypothesis, but ultimately fell), and it&#8217;s not the first time in history that vast numbers of otherwise sane people have succumbed to a case of mass hysteria.</p>
<p>Occum&#8217;s Razor would suggest&#160;that most politicians are merely too stubborn to concede they were wrong in their approach to this pandemic. Not just slightly, but catastrophically wrong. &#8220;Governments are continuing with these lockdowns because their scientific advisors are so emotionally invested in their initial projections,&#8221; Alex reckons.&#160;</p>
<p>But it&#8217;s not just our leaders. The prospect, for most citizens, that we&#8217;ve wasted nearly a year of our lives for no good reason is just too bitter a pill to swallow. Most of us are happier telling ourselves that it was all warranted, and for the greater good.&#160;</p>
<p>Either that, or the conspiracy loonies are right: Elon Musk (or is it Bill Gates?) is at the helm of a global plot to turn us all into an army of&#160;morose, segregated, muzzled, drone-patrolled test subjects in an alternate reality (purpose as yet unknown) under which free speech is curtailed, curfews dictate our every movement, and bonking is illegal with those outside our designated tribe.&#160;</p>
<p>Which, upon reflection, doesn&#8217;t sound too many lightyears away from our current warped&#160;reality.</p>
</div>