--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/JNF2W3ASJUI6XISYMFFM6K4QNU.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  If you don’t know why Eva Longoria is a political power broker, you haven’t been paying attention 
description: > 
  ADADIn the years following her breakout, Longoria, 45, has emerged as a fierce and productive advocate for women and Latinos.She fielded strong criticism around the characters’ occupation — a long-standing trope — while emphasizing that the maids held the power on the show.A guest appearance in the show’s Season 4 premiere gave Longoria a chance to poke fun at those critics.“There are so many studies that showed we don’t even know we have buying power, political power,” Longoria says.“The Eva Longoria who worked at Wendy’s flipping burgers, she needed a tax break,” the actress said, referencing Republican nominee Mitt Romney’s tax plan. 
date: 1603195377.6357846 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">For many Americans, Longoria is still best known for playing the pampered Gabrielle Solis on ABC&#8217;s &#8220;Desperate Housewives,&#8221; or educating us about the skin care benefits of <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ftGOQ2zzpwQ" target="_blank"><i>hy-a-lu-ron-ic</i> acid</a> in commercials for L&#8217;Oreal. It&#8217;s easy to forget that she had just a handful of credits (including a stint on &#8220;Young and the Restless&#8221;) before she was cast as Wisteria Lane&#8217;s most self-possessed resident. &#8220;Housewives,&#8221; which played to upward of <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/archive/lifestyle/2005/09/27/abcs-desperate-measure-28-million-plus/fbdf1d06-12e8-476f-9455-e14c18eeab72/?itid=lk_inline_manual_5" target="_blank">30 million viewers</a> in its heyday, made her a household name. But for Longoria, a ninth-generation Texan who grew up in Corpus Christi, Tex. &#8212; and never planned on being an actor &#8212; the role is perhaps most significant because of what it enabled her to do next.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In the years following her breakout, Longoria, 45, has emerged as a fierce and productive advocate for women and Latinos. There is a clear line from her journey in Hollywood &#8212; from acting to producing and directing &#8212; to the advocacy efforts that have put her on three consecutive Democratic National Convention stages. Amid a pivotal election year and a pandemic that has disproportionately affected Latinos and other people of color, Longoria has amplified her efforts, mobilizing voters and co-founding organizations that seek to effect systemic change.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;You can&#8217;t change policy until you change culture,&#8221; Longoria says in an interview with The Washington Post, citing a quote from artist-activist Favianna Rodriguez. &#8220;The biggest way you can change culture is through media. And so I&#8217;m in a position in which I can influence what people think of our community but also how our community thinks of ourselves.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I started producing and directing &#8230; so that I could tell stories from my community,&#8221; she says. &#8220;So that people could see us as heroes, too, and see us as part of the fabric of this country.&#8221;</p><p></p><p><h3 class="font--subhead gray-darkest ma-0 pb-sm pt-lgmod">An unconventional film school</h3></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Gaby Solis didn&#8217;t completely defy stereotypes; as a model turned housewife, the character embodied the hot Latina trope when &#8220;Desperate Housewives&#8221; debuted in 2004. But the Solises were wealthy and ambitious, with Longoria&#8217;s character launching her own successful business by the time the drama <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/entertainment/tv/desperate-housewives-finale-wisteria-lanes-twists-and-turns-finally-end/2012/05/10/gIQAcyD9HU_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_13" target="_blank">ended in 2012</a>. Longoria&#8217;s Golden Globe-nominated role, opposite veterans Felicity Huffman, Teri Hatcher and Marcia Cross, made her one of few Latinas playing lead characters on prime-time TV in the early-to-mid aughts.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria says the set of &#8220;Desperate Housewives,&#8221; created by Marc Cherry, was effectively her film school. She later signed on as an executive producer to Cherry&#8217;s follow-up project, &#8220;Devious Maids,&#8221; which shared the dark humor and mystery of &#8220;Housewives.&#8221; The Lifetime series, which premiered in 2013, was notably led by an ensemble cast of four Latina actresses: Judy Reyes, Dania Ramirez, Roselyn Sanchez and Ana Ortiz. (Reyes and Ramirez are <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UoDwOg6n8gI" target="_blank">both Dominican American</a> and identify as Afro-Latina; Sanchez and <a href="https://peopleenespanol.com/article/yolandita-monge-and-ana-ortiz-receive-puerto-rican-pride-honor/" target="_blank">Ortiz</a> are Puerto Rican.)</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria was, by all accounts, involved in every aspect of &#8220;Devious Maids&#8221; production, including casting, and made her directorial debut on the Season 2 premiere. She fielded strong <a href="https://www.huffpost.com/entry/devious-maids-eva-longoria_b_3248787" target="_blank">criticism</a> around the characters&#8217; occupation &#8212; a long-standing trope &#8212; while emphasizing that the maids held the power on the show.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A guest appearance in the show&#8217;s Season 4 premiere gave Longoria a chance to poke fun at those critics. She played an exaggerated version of herself, acting in a movie that was based on a book by former maid Marisol (Ortiz). &#8220;This story isn&#8217;t about you. It&#8217;s about the maids. It&#8217;s about Latina empowerment,&#8221; Marisol tells a White actress who tries to beef up her own part in the movie. &#8220;Back me up here, Eva.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria&#8217;s character pauses. &#8220;Hmm, I don&#8217;t know,&#8221; she says. &#8220;Do all the maids have to be Latina? Seems kind of racist.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria &#8220;does everything 100 percent,&#8221; says Nina Lederman, who was then head of scripted development at Lifetime and jumped at the chance to pick up &#8220;Devious Maids&#8221; when ABC passed on the dramedy. The two quickly became friends. &#8220;I loved her energy,&#8221; says Lederman, now executive vice president of global scripted development and programming at Sony Pictures. &#8220;She&#8217;s got a wonderful sense of humor and she is so not a diva in any way.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">It was Lederman who persuaded Longoria to try her hand at directing. &#8220;<i>S</i>he&#8217;s hungry to learn, and she&#8217;s got such a charming and wonderful and smart way that she learns and she asks and she studies,&#8221; Lederman says. &#8220;<i>S</i>he really works hard to get it right.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria has since directed for shows known for placing underrepresented groups at the center of stories, including &#8220;Jane the Virgin,&#8221; &#8220;Blackish,&#8221; and two of her own regrettably short-lived projects: NBC&#8217;s &#8220;Telenovela,&#8221; and ABC&#8217;s &#8220;Grand Hotel.&#8221; She is currently set to direct three big-screen projects, one of which will mark her feature directorial debut: She will direct and star in &#8220;Spa Day,&#8221; an action-comedy, and will also pull double duty on &#8220;24-7,&#8221; co-starring Kerry Washington. The other is &#8220;Flamin&#8217; Hot,&#8221; a biopic about the Mexican American businessman who created the cult-favorite variety of Cheetos.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria now thinks of herself as &#8220;a producer-director that fell into acting.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Once I got to Hollywood, I was fascinated by how things were put together, and I was fascinated by the business side,&#8221; she says. &#8220;I felt like, as an actor, I wasn&#8217;t using my full potential. I was just going to work, standing on a mark, saying my lines and going home. And when I was producing and directing, it was like I was firing on all cylinders.&#8221;</p><p></p><p><h3 class="font--subhead gray-darkest ma-0 pb-sm pt-lgmod">Harnessing her power</h3></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">While her film school was metaphorical, Longoria actually was a student when &#8220;Desperate Housewives&#8221; wrapped; she graduated in 2013 with a master&#8217;s degree in Chicana/o studies from California State University at Northridge. She wrote her thesis on the value of increasing opportunities for Latinas in STEM fields (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), which is also <a href="https://evalongoriafoundation.org/our-programs/#education" target="_blank">one focus</a> of the nonprofit organization she founded in 2012.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Latinas, Longoria says, are &#8220;one of the most powerful groups that this country has.&#8221; Last month, she <a href="https://www.instagram.com/p/CEj0JmeJ_3X/" target="_blank">announced the creation of She Se Puede</a>, a digital lifestyle community she launched with actress America Ferrera and other Latina activists. The nonprofit initiative&#8217;s name is a play on the slogan coined by famed activist and labor leader Dolores Huerta, who Longoria says has been a mentor to her since her pre-fame days.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;There are so many studies that showed we don&#8217;t even know we have buying power, political power,&#8221; Longoria says. &#8220;We&#8217;re trying to make sure that Latinas know that they have this power."</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Philanthropy and political activism (not to mention <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/morning-mix/wp/2014/07/24/why-should-actresses-have-all-the-fun-finally-a-compendium-of-celebrity-lifestyle-sites-for-men/?itid=lk_inline_manual_36" target="_blank">digital lifestyle efforts</a>) aren&#8217;t uncommon in Hollywood. But few actors have launched political action committees, as Longoria did in 2014. She co-founded the liberal Latino Victory Fund with Henry R. Mu&#241;oz III, a designer and businessman who was then the finance chairman for the Democratic National Committee.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Mu&#241;oz and Longoria became friends after being appointed to a bipartisan commission to study the possibility of a Latino museum on the Mall. They bonded over their shared Texas roots, says Mu&#241;oz, a San Antonio native, and a desire to galvanize the Latino community to &#8220;organize and lead ourselves.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria lends much more than her name and money to these causes, Mu&#241;oz says. &#8220;She&#8217;s not just going to go to a rally, say a few words, and stand up there and then leave. She&#8217;s really, honestly involved in the policy discussions and the design of these moments and these movements.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">As President Obama prepared to run for his second term, Longoria and Mu&#241;oz teamed with lawyer Andr&#233;s W. L&#243;pez to <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/hispanic-campaign-donors-look-for-new-ways-to-flex-their-political-muscle/2012/12/05/0e0d63ea-3e2e-11e2-a2d9-822f58ac9fd5_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_41" target="_blank">organize a fund</a> that raised more than $30 million for his reelection campaign. Latino Victory was born out of wanting to harness that momentum, Mu&#241;oz says.</p><p></p><p><h3 class="font--subhead gray-darkest ma-0 pb-sm pt-lgmod">A pivotal election</h3></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The group has raised millions toward its goal of increasing Latino political power, counting Reps. Sylvia Garcia and Veronica Escobar &#8212; both Democrats and, paradoxically, <a href="https://www.texastribune.org/2018/11/06/sylvia-garcia-veronica-escobar-first-latina-texas-midterm-election/" target="_blank">the first Latinas elected to Congress</a> from heavily Latino Texas &#8212; and dozens of other candidates <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/women-racked-up-victories-across-the-country-tuesday-it-may-only-be-the-beginning/2017/11/08/97f8f3b0-c49f-11e7-afe9-4f60b5a6c4a0_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_44" target="_blank">across all levels</a> of government among its success stories. Latino Victory has also gotten attention for aggressive ad campaigns, including a <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/local/virginia-politics/latino-victory-fund-pilloried-for-truck-ad-says-northam-win-is-vindication/2017/11/09/020f7c1e-c591-11e7-afe9-4f60b5a6c4a0_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_44" target="_blank">controversial stand against a Virginia gubernatorial candidate</a> who ran ads attempting to associate illegal immigration with gang violence. This year, the group is <a href="https://latinovictory.us/2020-candidates/" target="_blank">backing former vice president Joe Biden</a> in the presidential election (after <a href="https://latinovictory.us/press-release/latino-victory-fund-announces-endorsement-of-secretary-julian-castro-for-president-of-the-united-states/" target="_blank">endorsing</a> former Housing and Urban Development Secretary Juli&#225;n Castro ahead of the primaries).</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In July, Mu&#241;oz and Longoria launched Momento Latino, a coalition uniting more than 130 organizations toward the goal of systemic change in health care, the economy and education. They were spurred in large part by the coronavirus pandemic, which has been devastating for Latino communities across the U.S., and particularly in their home state of Texas. As The Post&#8217;s Arelis R. Hern&#225;ndez reported <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/nation/2020/09/22/latinos-us-coronavirus/?arc404=true&amp;itid=lk_inline_manual_47" target="_blank">last month</a>, more than 36,500 Latinos have died of covid-19, the disease caused by the novel coronavirus. Many Latinos are essential workers, putting them further at risk.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Momento Latino effort required reaching out to dozens of activists and nonprofit organizations. Longoria, Mu&#241;oz says, <i>&#8220;</i>was on every single call.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Momento Latino will take on a bigger stage on Oct. 26 when Longoria co-hosts the organization&#8217;s CBS special <a href="https://www.cbs.com/shows/essential-heroes-a-momento-latino-event/" target="_blank">&#8220;Essential Heroes,&#8221;</a> celebrating essential workers and Latino culture, alongside Ricky Martin and Gloria Estefan.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria &#8220;understands the power of her voice,&#8221; says Tina Tchen, president and CEO of Time&#8217;s Up, which counts the actress among its founding members.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><i>&#8220;</i>She has an incredible talent of being warm and personable and tapping into that image that people may have of her as an actress, and then &#8230; use that very well to drive home a serious point,&#8221; says Tchen, a former chief of staff to Michelle Obama.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Part of Longoria&#8217;s appeal stems from her willingness to be &#8220;personally vulnerable&#8221; when discussing issues, Tchen adds, whether she&#8217;s talking about the challenges she&#8217;s faced in the entertainment industry or in being a working mom (Longoria shares 2-year-old Santiago with her husband of four years, <a href="https://people.com/celebrity/5-things-to-know-about-eva-longorias-husband-jose-baston/" target="_blank">Jos&#233;</a><a href="https://people.com/celebrity/5-things-to-know-about-eva-longorias-husband-jose-baston/" target="_blank"> Bast&#243;n</a>.)</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><i>&#8220;</i>Having a Latinx woman do that from a position of success and power, but still deeply connected and rooted to her community is incredibly powerful,&#8221; says Tchen. &#8220;I think that&#8217;s why she&#8217;s so effective in reaching people and educating them about things like the importance of voting<i>.&#8221; </i></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In many ways, Longoria&#8217;s first speech at the Democratic National Convention eight years ago served as a primer on her advocacy efforts and how they are influenced by her upbringing.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I&#8217;m the youngest of four girls, including my oldest sister Liza, who has special needs,&#8221; she <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7UFQPjvwTWk" target="_blank">told the crowd</a> at a Charlotte arena. Her mother was a special-education teacher; her father worked on an Army base. &#8220;In my family there was one cardinal priority: education,&#8221; Longoria said, detailing the various jobs she took on to pay for college, including a stint at Wendy&#8217;s.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">While her speech was grounded in her humble Texas roots, Longoria rebutted any illusion that she would try to present herself as an everywoman. &#8220;The Eva Longoria who worked at Wendy&#8217;s flipping burgers, <i>she</i> needed a tax break,&#8221; the actress said, referencing Republican nominee Mitt Romney&#8217;s tax plan. &#8220;But the Eva Longoria who works on movie sets does not.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Longoria was one of the <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/08/18/lets-hope-dncs-inexplicably-weak-latino-lineup-is-not-fatal-mistake/?itid=lk_inline_manual_59" target="_blank">few Latinos</a> who spoke at this year&#8217;s Democratic convention, bringing more visibility both to her leadership and some of the very issues that have inspired her political advocacy. She pays the naysayers no mind. &#8220;None of that really phases me,&#8221; she says. &#8220;I didn&#8217;t show up there as a celebrity or as an actress. I showed up as an American and as a patriot.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><i>&#8220;</i>The greatest myth is that you have to be a politician to be political,&#8221; Longoria says.</p></div>