--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/09/business/09markets-brf-europe/merlin_178186974_f820a106-4b68-4308-afe8-11e245532432-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  In Europe, Hopes for an Economic Recovery Are Fading: Live Updates 
description: > 
  ET In Europe, Hopes for an Economic Recovery Are Fading: Live Updates S&P 500 U.S. % Dow U.S. % Oil W.T.I.% Nikkei Japan % Dax Germany % FTSE Britain % RIGHT NOW In Britain, the best of the economic recovery is already in the past.The talks come as the number of virus cases around the world rises, and the recovery in major economies — including the United States — show signs of losing steam.India is one of the countries on which the United States levied new tariffs.He said China was dumping its excess capacity into other markets, which would then find its way into the United States. 
date: 1602258145.6281927 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 9, 2020, 10:59 a.m. ET Oct. 9, 2020, 10:59 a.m. ET In Europe, Hopes for an Economic Recovery Are Fading: Live Updates S&P 500 U.S. % Dow U.S. % Oil W.T.I. % Nikkei Japan % Dax Germany % FTSE Britain % RIGHT NOW In Britain, the best of the economic recovery is already in the past.

Stocks rise after a tumultuous week of U.S. fiscal stimulus talks. Stocks were heading higher again on Friday, after a turbulent week in which President Trump injected confusion into the stimulus talks between the Treasury Department and Congress, halting them and then restarting them again.

On Wall Street, the S&P 500 climbed about half a percent in early trading, on track to end the week with a gain of nearly 3 percent. The Stoxx Europe 600 index rose 0.3 percent on Friday, and was up 1.9 percent for the week.

“Today’s market driver is President Trump’s apparent willingness to consider a bigger fiscal package ahead of the election than earlier indicated,” said Kit Juckes, a strategist at Société Générale.

Mr. Trump’s comments on Thursday that he was interested in a broad bill came just two days after he called off talks entirely, and the on-again, off-again nature of the talks this week has left investors uncertain about the prospects of an actual deal.

On Thursday, Speaker Nancy Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin held an afternoon phone call to discuss the prospects of a broad stimulus bill, to aid small businesses, local governments and out-of-work Americans, rather than one just focused on the airline industry.

“Their conversation focused on determining whether there is any prospect of an imminent agreement on a comprehensive bill,” Ms. Pelosi’s spokesman said on Twitter.

The talks come as the number of virus cases around the world rises, and the recovery in major economies — including the United States — show signs of losing steam. Britain on Friday said its gross domestic product rose 2.1 percent in August over the month before, less than expected and the smallest monthly increase since the economy started expanding again in late spring. The British economy is still 9 percent smaller than it was before the pandemic. — Eshe Nelson and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Trump administration adds tariffs on nearly $2 billion of imported aluminum. An aluminium factory in India in 2019. India is one of the countries on which the United States levied new tariffs. Credit... Dhiraj Singh/Bloomberg The Trump administration levied tariffs on $1.96 billion of imported aluminum sheet from 18 countries on Friday, saying that foreign producers were selling their products at unfairly low prices and undercutting American manufacturers. In an interview on Fox Business Network on Friday morning, Wilbur Ross, the secretary of commerce, called the move “the largest and most far-reaching case that our department has brought in more than 20 years.” He said Germany would feel the largest impact, followed by Bahrain. Mr. Ross traced part of the problem back to China. He said China was dumping its excess capacity into other markets, which would then find its way into the United States. “The net effect is a lot of dumping in the U.S., and that’s what we’re clamping down on,” he said. The United States, which imported $15.9 billion of aluminum in 2019, has already imposed a 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum from many countries, though Canada, Mexico and others have earned certain exemptions. Some American aluminum makers support the tariffs, but the levies have angered many manufacturers that make cars, boats, recreational vehicles, washing machines and other products, and now have to pay higher prices for their raw materials. The U.S. government typically brings dozens of trade cases against foreign countries every year for unfairly subsidizing and pricing their products. But the Trump administration has been particularly aggressive in pursuing and welcoming such cases from various industries, and has initiated 286 of them so far during its term. The tariffs, which went into effect immediately, apply to products from Bahrain, Brazil, Croatia, Egypt, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Italy, Oman, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan and Turkey. The tariff rates vary by country and range up to 353 percent of the cost of the good. Several U.S. aluminum manufacturers requested the tariffs, including Arconic, Novelis Corporation, Texarkana Aluminum and Constellium Rolled Products Ravenswood. The Commerce Department will begin collecting the levies immediately, but they could still be struck down and retroactively reimbursed. The U.S. International Trade Commission will make its final decision on the case on April 5, 2021, the Commerce Department said. —

Catch Up: Disney will move Pixar’s ‘Soul’ to its streaming service. The next Pixar movie, “Soul,” will be made available online instead of in theaters because of the pandemic, the Walt Disney Company said. The film, about a jazz musician who is magically transported to an otherworldly place where personalities are created, will arrive on Disney+ on Dec. 25 at no additional cost to subscribers (unlike the recent “Mulan,” which was accessible for a $30 surcharge). “Soul” had been scheduled for theatrical release on Nov. 20.

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some chief executives have made a killing in the stock market this year. Some corporate executives have seen their wealth soar this year, thanks to stock awards that have gained in value as the stock market rebounded from its plunge at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Edward W. Stack, the chief executive of Dick’s Sporting Goods, and William Lynch, president of Peloton, for example, are each sitting on paper gains of over $60 million on stock-based awards they mostly received in the first three months of the year, according to an analysis by Institutional Shareholder Services.

And Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive of Moderna, a drug maker developing a coronavirus vaccine, received options in February that have appreciated by nearly $30 million.

Some executives at companies that have been hit hard by the pandemic have still done well. In March, William J. Hornbuckle, chief executive of MGM Resorts International, gave up the remainder of his 2020 salary in exchange for restricted stock units worth $700,000, the amount of his forgone salary. After MGM stock recovered somewhat from the lows it plumbed in March, that grant is worth $1.3 million on paper — and all his 2020 awards have appreciated by a combined $4 million.

Not all executives have gains on their 2020 grants, because many companies have struggled in the pandemic. ISS found that 1,675 “named executive officers,” or the executives who appear in proxies, had gains while 1,388 had losses, as of Wednesday’s closing stock prices. The average appreciation was nearly $1.5 million and the average loss $827,000. One reason stock awards have appreciated so much is that some of the grants were made when the stock market was close to its lowest point for the year. Of course, many executives are also sitting on gains on stock they got in earlier years. —

Target and Ford say employees can work from home through June. Target said it was using this time as an opportunity to reimagine the role of its office in a post-pandemic era. Credit... Sue Ogrocki/Associated Press Target and Ford Motor on Thursday said they would allow employees to continue to work from home through June 2021, as coronavirus cases continue to climb in the United States and companies struggle to figure out how to arrange offices in a way that keeps workers socially distanced and safe. Target’s decision, announced in a letter to staff, applies just to employees at its headquarters, in Minneapolis. The company said that a small number of employees who rely on the headquarter facilities would continue to work on-site. The retailer also said it was using this time as an opportunity to reimagine the role of its office in a post-pandemic era. “As we look to the future, our headquarters environment will include a hybrid model of remote and on-site work,” Target wrote in the letter. “This will allow for the flexibility many of you have come to value, while also providing opportunity for the in-person connection and collaboration that’s central to our team and culture.” Ford also said its decision would apply to its roughly 32,000 employees in North America who are already working remotely. The announcements by Ford and Target come after several other companies, including Google, Uber and Slack, have decided that employees need not return to the office until at least next summer. Some companies have tried bringing employees back to the office, but not always successfully. Last month, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan had to send some workers back home after employees tested positive for the virus. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story