--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/C0140-Large.jpg?w=711 
title: > 
  Intel is providing the smarts for the first satellite with local AI processing on board – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  Intel detailed today its contribution to PhiSat-1, a new tiny small satellite that was launched into sun-synchronous orbit on September 2.PhiSat-1 has a new kind of hyperspectral-thermal camera on board, and also includes a Movidius Myriad 2 Vision Processing Unit.Specifically, the AI on board the PhiSat-1 will be handling automatic identification of cloud cover – images where the Earth is obscured in terms of what the scientists studying the data actually want to see.The AI software that runs on the Intel Myriad 2 on PhiSat-1 was created by startup Ubotica, which worked with the hardware maker behind the hyperspectral camera.Computing at the edge takes on a whole new meaning when applied to satellites on orbit, but it’s definitely a place where local AI makes a ton of sense. 
date: 1603205083.7484035 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary"><a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/intel" target="_blank">Intel </a> detailed today its contribution to PhiSat-1, a new tiny small satellite that was launched into sun-synchronous orbit on September 2. PhiSat-1 has a new kind of hyperspectral-thermal camera on board, and also includes a <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/movidius" target="_blank">Movidius </a> Myriad 2 Vision Processing Unit. That VPU is found in a number of consumer devices on Earth, but this is its first trip to space &#8211; and the first time it&#8217;ll be handling large amounts of local data, saving researchers back on Earth precious time and satellite downlink bandwidth.</p>
<p>Specifically, the AI on board the PhiSat-1 will be handling automatic identification of cloud cover &#8211; images where the Earth is obscured in terms of what the scientists studying the data actually want to see. Getting rid of these images before they&#8217;re even transmitted means that the satellite can actually realize a bandwidth savings of up to 30%, which means more useful data is transmitted to Earth when it is in range of ground stations for transmission.</p>
<p>The AI software that runs on the Intel Myriad 2 on PhiSat-1 was created by startup Ubotica, which worked with the hardware maker behind the hyperspectral camera. It also had to be tuned to compensate for the excess exposure to radiation, though a bit surprisingly testing at CERN found that the hardware itself didn&#8217;t have to be modified in order to perform within the standards required for its mission.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>Computing at the edge takes on a whole new meaning when applied to satellites on orbit, but it&#8217;s definitely a place where local AI makes a ton of sense. All the same reasons that companies seek to handle data processing and analytics at the site of sensors hear on Earth also apply in space &#8211; but magnified exponentially in terms of things like network inaccessibility and quality of connections, so expect to see a lot more of this.</p>
<p>PhiSat-1 was launched in September as part of Arianspace&#8217;s first rideshare demonstration mission, which it aims to use to show off its ability to offer launch services to smaller startups for smaller payloads at lower costs.</p>
			</div>