--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/GettyImages-1058494628.jpg?w=533 
title: > 
  Intel agrees to sell its NAND business to SK Hynix for $9 billion – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  SK Hynix, one of the world’s largest chip makers, announced today it will pay $9 billion for Intel’s flash memory business.Intel said it will use proceeds from the deal to focus on artificial intelligence, 5G and edge computing.The Wall Street Journal first reported earlier this week that the two companies were nearing an agreement, which will turn SK Hynix into one of the world’s largest NAND memory makers, second only to Samsung Electronics.The deal with SK Hynix is the latest one Intel has made so it can double down on developing technology for 5G network infrastructure.According to the Wall Street Journal, this made up the majority of Intel’s total memory sales during that period, which was about $3 billion. 
date: 1603173708.3915277 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary"><a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/sk-hynix" target="_blank">SK Hynix, </a> one of the world&#8217;s largest chip makers, <a href="https://news.skhynix.com/sk-hynix-to-acquire-intel-nand-memory-business/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">announced</a> today it will pay $9 billion for Intel&#8217;s flash memory business. <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/intel" target="_blank">Intel </a> said it will use proceeds from the deal to focus on artificial intelligence, 5G and edge computing.</p>
<p>&#8220;For Intel, this transaction will allow us to to further prioritize our investments in differentiated technology where we can play a bigger role in the success of our customers and deliver attractive returns to our stockholders,&#8221; said Intel chief executive officer Bob Swan in the announcement.</p>
<p>The Wall Street Journal <a href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/intel-nears-deal-to-sell-nand-memory-unit-to-sk-hynix-11603129781">first reported </a>earlier this week that the two companies were nearing an agreement, which will turn SK Hynix into one of the world&#8217;s largest NAND memory makers, second only to Samsung Electronics.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>The deal with SK Hynix is the latest one Intel has made so it can double down on developing technology for 5G network infrastructure. Last year, Intel sold the majority of its modem business to Apple for about $1 billion, with Swan saying that the time that the deal would allow Intel to &#8220;[put] our full effort into 5G where it most closely aligns with the needs of our global customer base.&#8221;</p>
<p>Once the deal is approved and closes, Seoul-based SK Hynix will take over Intel&#8217;s NAND SSD and NAND component and wafer businesses, and its NAND foundry in Dalian, China. Intel will hold onto its Optane business, which makes SSD memory modules. The companies said regulatory approval is expected by late 2021, and a final closing of all assets, including Intel&#8217;s NAND-related intellectual property, will take place in March 2025.</p>
<p>Until the final closing takes places, Intel will continue to manufacture NAND wafers at the Dalian foundry and retain all IP related to the manufacturing and design of its NAND flash wafers.</p>
<p>As the Wall Street Journal noted, the Dalian facility is Intel&#8217;s only major foundry in China, which means selling it to SK Hynix will dramatically reduce its presence there as the United States government puts trade restrictions on Chinese technology.</p>
<p>In the announcement, Intel said it plans to use proceeds from the sale to &#8220;advance its long-term growth priorities, including artificial intelligence, 5G networking and the intelligent, autonomous edge.&#8221;</p>
<p>During the six-month period ending on June 27, 2020, NAND business represented about $2.8 billion of revenue for its Non-volatile Memory Solutions Group (NSG), and contributed about $600 million to the division&#8217;s operating income. According to the Wall Street Journal, this made up the majority of Intel&#8217;s total memory sales during that period, which was about $3 billion.</p>
<p>SK Hynix CEO Seok-Hee Lee said the deal will allow the South Korean company to &#8220;optimize our business structure, expanding our innovative portfolio in the NAND flash market segment, which will be comparable with what we achieved in DRAM.&#8221;</p>
</div>