--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/21/us/21dc-intel2/merlin_178195395_3b40928d-59fb-4730-b0f3-309f6e871aa2-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Iran and Russia Seek to Influence Election in Final Days, U.S. Officials Warn 
description: > 
  “We are under attack and we are going to be up to Nov. 3 and probably beyond,” Senator Angus King, independent of Maine who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee.The two lawmakers urged the intelligence agencies to release more information about the threat, but officials said they had to limit what information they made public, according to people briefed on the meeting.That perception alone, officials said, could shake confidence in the integrity of the vote — exactly what Russia has been seeking to do since its interference in 2016.Iran has tinkered at the edges of American election interference since 2012, but always as a minor actor.Last year they stepped up their game, private cybersecurity firms have warned. 
keywords: > 
  days, senate, iran, officials, stepped, information, russia, american, influence, final, senator, seek, intelligence, warn, world, election 
date: 1603333362.115042 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Iran opposes Mr. Trump&#8217;s re-election because its leaders believe that under a Biden administration, they might be able to revive their nuclear deal reached in 2015 with six world powers and restart international investment.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The fact that Iran &#8212; which has stepped up its cyberabilities drastically over the past decade, after its nuclear program was attacked with American and Israeli cyberweapons &#8212; was involved demonstrates how fast other nations have learned from Russia&#8217;s influence operations in 2016.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">&#8220;We are under attack and we are going to be up to Nov. 3 and probably beyond,&#8221; Senator Angus King, independent of Maine who sits on the Senate Intelligence Committee. &#8220;Both the American people have to be skeptical and thoughtful about information they receive and certainly election officials have to be doubly cautious now that we know again they are targets.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Intelligence officials briefed Senator Marco Rubio, the Republican chairman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, and Senator Mark Warner, the committee&#8217;s top Democrat. The two lawmakers urged the intelligence agencies to release more information about the threat, but officials said they had to limit what information they made public, according to people briefed on the meeting.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">In 2016, Russia scanned the contents of many state election systems and penetrated a few, including Arizona and Illinois, even if they did not change any votes, &#8220;This may be the beginning of a more concerted operation,&#8221; said Mr. King. &#8220;They don&#8217;t have to do anything; they just have to make people think they are doing something.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Officials have been warning for months about the risk of what are known as perception hacks: efforts to use a mix of easily accessible data to create the impression among voters that foreign powers are actually inside voting infrastructure. That perception alone, officials said, could shake confidence in the integrity of the vote &#8212; exactly what Russia has been seeking to do since its interference in 2016.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Iran has tinkered at the edges of American election interference since 2012, but always as a minor actor. Last year they stepped up their game, private cybersecurity firms have warned. They have caught Iranian operatives occasionally impersonating politicians and journalists around the world, often to spread narratives that are aimed at denigrating Israel or Saudi Arabia, its two major adversaries in the Middle East.</p></div>