--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/20/06/newFile.jpg 
title: > 
  Jeff Bridges lymphoma: The Big Lebowski star says he’s been diagnosed with cancer 
description: > 
  Jeff Bridges has been diagnosed with lymphoma.The actor made the announcement via his Twitter account on Monday (19 October).“I have been diagnosed with lymphoma,” he wrote.Because we are all in this together.”Lymphoma is cancer that begins in infection-fighting cells of the immune system, called lymphocytes.He is currently working on FX series The Old Man, which is scheduled to arrive in 2021. 
date: 1603180664.6692429 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p><a href="/topic/jeff-bridges">Jeff Bridges</a> has been diagnosed with <a href="/topic/lymphoma">lymphoma.</a></p><p>The actor made the announcement via his Twitter account on Monday (19 October).</p><p>Referencing <i>The Big Lebowski</i>, the 1998 Coen brothers film he starred in, Bridges started his post with: &#8220;As the Dude would say&#8230; New s*** has come to light.&#8221;</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>The actor, who won an Oscar for <i>Crazy Heart</i> in 2010, said his prognosis is &#8220;good&#8221;.</p><p>&#8220;I have been diagnosed with lymphoma,&#8221; he wrote. &#8220;Although it is a serious disease, I feel fortunate that I have a great team of doctors and the prognosis is good.&#8221;</p><p>Bridges continued: &#8220;I&#8217;m starting treatment and will keep you posted on my recovery.&#8221;</p><p>In a follow-up post, he thanked his fans and urged US citizens to vote in the forthcoming election.</p><p>&#8220;I&#8217;m profoundly grateful for the love and support from my family and friends. Thank you for your prayers and well wishes,&#8221; he wrote.</p><p></p><p>&#8220;And, while I have you, please remember to go vote. Because we are all in this together.&#8221;</p><p class="sc-oTaAA eBoKzo"></p><p>Lymphoma is cancer that begins in infection-fighting cells of the immune system, called lymphocytes.&#160;</p><p>These cells are in the lymph nodes, spleen, thymus, bone marrow, and other parts of the body. When you have lymphoma, lymphocytes change and grow out of control.</p><p></p><p>Bridges has been nominated for seven Oscars since 1972. His films include <i>The Last Picture Show</i>, <i>Starman</i>, <i>True Grit</i> and <i>Hell or High Water</i>.</p><p></p><p>He is currently working on FX series <i>The Old Man</i>, which is scheduled to arrive in 2021.&#160;</p><p>In response to Bridge's diagnosis, the network said: &#8220;Our thoughts go out to Jeff and his family during this challenging time and they have our love and support. We wish him a safe and full recovery. And, as Jeff always says, &#8216;We are all in this together.'&#8221;</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>