--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8d62369e9fe40019009fec?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Just 0.4% of channels on YouTube get the bulk of views and subscribers, a new study suggests 
description: > 
  An academic analysis of 36 million YouTube channels shows the gulf between the site's haves and have nots.Researchers at the Universities of Amsterdam and Barcelona, as well as Queensland University of Technology in Australia crawled millions of YouTube channels using the site's API.Out of 36.3 million channels captured in the data, just 4.4 million have more than 1,000 subscribers, making them eligible for monetization by YouTube.Just 15,496 out of the 36 million surveyed have more than a million subscribers, but account for more than a third of views worldwide.In the late 2000s, the average YouTube video was around five minutes long. 
date: 1603107426.5584905 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>An academic analysis of 36 million YouTube channels shows the gulf between the site's haves and have nots.</li>
<li>Just 0.4% of channels surveyed command the bulk of views, subscribers, and pay.</li>
<li>Music and gaming content are the most popular areas on the site.</li>
<li>"YouTube's monetization system isn't good enough to earn a living," said &#210;scar Coromina, one of the study's authors.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-prime-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-prime-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>There's now empirical proof that it is extremely hard to make a living on YouTube.</p><p>An analysis of 36 million YouTube channels has helped unlock the shape and size of the video sharing platform &#8212; and lifted the lid on some of the secrets to success.</p><p>Researchers at the Universities of Amsterdam and Barcelona, as well as Queensland University of Technology in Australia <a href="https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/10667/9575">crawled millions of YouTube channels</a> using the site's API. Their research was published in the peer-reviewed journal First Monday, and will be presented at the Association of Internet Researchers conference later in October.</p><p>What they found is the best-yet insight into the gulf between success and failure on the platform.</p><p>"For the first time we were confronted with this large-scale quantitative data," said &#210;scar Coromina of the Universitat Aut&#242;noma de Barcelona, Spain. "We are able to see the empirical evidence."</p><p>Out of 36.3 million channels captured in the data, just 4.4 million have more than 1,000 subscribers, making them eligible for monetization by YouTube.</p><p>Just 0.42% of channels &#8212; 153,770 in total &#8212; have more than 100,000 subscribers. And while these bigger channels account for fewer than one in 10 videos posted on the platform, they lay claim to 62% of views.</p><p>They are also more likely to have posted a large number of videos: around 940, compared to 26 for those with fewer than 1,000 subscribers.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-prime-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-prime-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>The super-elite on YouTube, those with more than a million subscribers, are in an even more rarefied world.</p><p>Just 15,496 out of the 36 million surveyed have more than a million subscribers, but account for more than a third of views worldwide. In other words, just 0.04% hit more than one million subscribers.</p><h2>Many YouTubers rely on a second platform, like Patreon, to bolster their income</h2><p>Overall, the data shows just how tough it is to become a popular channel on YouTube and earn enough to make a living.</p><p>"It surprised me," said Coromina. "It's very different to talk about the popular YouTubers and small individuals who create videos to share with their families.</p><p>The average YouTube channel has been running for around 2,000 days, according to the analysis.</p><p>The data also gives an insight into how YouTube has changed over the years &#8212; and the demands of content creators on the platform have increased.</p><p>In the late 2000s, the average YouTube video was around five minutes long. It crossed the 10-minute mark in 2014, and in 2019 the average video was nearer 800 seconds, or more than 13 minutes.</p><p>Increased video length has been cited as one example of the professionalization of YouTube, as the platform moves from a place whose motto was "Broadcast Yourself" to a site less for hobbyists and more for production companies that ape movie and TV studios.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-prime-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-prime-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>It has also become a full-time job for some content creators, and the need to earn money from videos more important.</p><p>By analyzing 138 million videos posted by elite YouTubers, the academics found that sites such as Patreon, that allow creators' fans to subsidize their existence by providing them with a monthly stipend, have been mentioned more by creators in the last five years.</p><p>More than half a million Patreon links are included in the descriptions of videos produced by the top YouTubers each year.</p><p>"All these YouTubers are driven to work across platforms," said Coromina. "YouTube's monetization system isn't good enough to earn a living. Even these super-elite YouTubers need to go to other platforms like Patreon and Twitch.</p><p>"YouTube is to the audio-visual industry the same that Uber is to cab drivers," he added. "It has all the precarious labor and instability these sharing-economy platforms have. It's the Uberization of the audio-visual industry."</p><p>If you want to make it big on YouTube, your best chance of success comes by producing music or gaming content. The average video for YouTubers with more than 100,000 subscribers who post music content has 2.1 million views &#8212; an indication perhaps that the site is also used as a place to watch music videos.</p><p>For gaming, the average video published by high-ranking YouTubers gets more than a million views. There is more work involved, though: The average gaming video lasts 30 minutes, an indication of the popularity of "Let's play" videos in the sector.</p><p>And the payment for gaming is lower than others, according to Coromina.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-prime-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-4" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-prime-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-4" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"Gaming is one of the worst-paid sectors," he said. "We don't know what is the best, but we can infer what's the best from what we can see, and from what these creators are publishing. I think it's entertainment on one hand, and the other one is vlogs. That's what people are interested in."</p>
                  </div>