--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/25/magazine/25mag-harris-1/25mag-harris-1-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Kamala Harris, Mass Incarceration and Me 
description: > 
  Harris came up as a prosecutor in the 1990s, when both the political culture and popular culture were developing a story about crime and violence that made incarceration feel like a moral response.Back then, films by Black directors — “New Jack City,” “Menace II Society,” “Boyz n the Hood” — turned Black violence into a genre where murder and crack-dealing were as ever-present as Black fathers were absent.With me were Anthony Winn and Terell Kelly and a dozen others, all lost to prison during those years.Home from college for two weeks, a 19-year-old Anthony robbed four convenience stores — he’d been carrying a pistol during three.Juvie and Luke have made parole; Fats, represented by the Innocence Project at the University of Virginia School of Law, was granted a conditional pardon by Virginia’s governor, Ralph Northam. 
keywords: > 
  ['black', 'parole', 'friends', 'school', 'terell', 'incarceration', 'harris', 'mass', 'way', 'prison', 'virginia', 'violence', 'anthony', 'kamala'] 
date: 1603218056.6638725 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Among the guests in the room that night whom I talked to, no one had an issue with her work as a prosecutor. A lot of them seemed to believe that only people doing dirt had issues with prosecutors. I thought of myself and my friends who have served long terms, knowing that in a way, Harris was talking about Black people&#8217;s needing protection from us &#8212; from the violence we perpetrated to earn those years in a series of cells.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0"><strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10">Harris came up</strong> as a prosecutor in the 1990s, when both the political culture and popular culture were developing a story about crime and violence that made incarceration feel like a moral response. Back then, films by Black directors &#8212; &#8220;New Jack City,&#8221; &#8220;Menace II Society,&#8221; &#8220;Boyz n the Hood&#8221; &#8212; turned Black violence into a genre where murder and crack-dealing were as ever-present as Black fathers were absent. Those were the years when Representative Charlie Rangel, a Democrat, argued that &#8220;we should not allow people to distribute this poison without fear that they might be arrested&#8221; and &#8220;go to jail for the rest of their natural life.&#8221; Those were the years when President Clinton signed legislation that ended federal parole for people with three violent crime convictions and encouraged states to essentially eliminate parole; made it more difficult for defendants to challenge their convictions in court; and made it nearly impossible to challenge prison conditions.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Back then, it felt like I was just one of an entire generation of young Black men learning the logic of count time and lockdown. With me were Anthony Winn and Terell Kelly and a dozen others, all lost to prison during those years. Terell was sentenced to 33 years for murdering a man when he was 17 &#8212; a neighborhood beef turned deadly. Home from college for two weeks, a 19-year-old Anthony robbed four convenience stores &#8212; he&#8217;d been carrying a pistol during three. After he was sentenced by four judges, he had a total of 36 years.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Most of us came into those cells with trauma, having witnessed or experienced brutality before committing our own. Prison, a factory of violence and despair, introduced us to more of the same. And though there were organizations working to get rid of the death penalty, end mandatory minimums, bring back parole and even abolish prisons, there were few ways for us to know that they existed. We suffered. And we felt alone. Because of this, sometimes I reduce my friends&#8217; stories to the cruelty of doing time. I forget that Terell and I walked prison yards as teenagers, discussing Malcolm X and searching for mentors in the men around us. I forget that Anthony and I talked about the poetry of Sonia Sanchez the way others praised DMX. He taught me the meaning of the word &#8220;patina&#8221; and introduced me to the music of Bill Withers. There were Luke and Fats; and Juvie, who could give you the sharpest edge-up in America with just a razor and comb.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">When I left prison in 2005, they all had decades left. Then I went to law school and believed I owed it to them to work on their cases and help them get out. I&#8217;ve persuaded lawyers to represent friends pro bono. Put together parole packets &#8212; basically job applications for freedom: letters of recommendation and support from family and friends; copies of certificates attesting to vocational training; the record of college credits. We always return to the crimes to provide explanation and context. We argue that today each one little resembles the teenager who pulled a gun. And I write a letter &#8212; which is less from a lawyer and more from a man remembering what it means to want to go home to his mother. I write, struggling to condense decades of life in prison into a 10-page case for freedom. Then I find my way to the parole board&#8217;s office in Richmond, Va., and try to persuade the members to let my friends see a sunrise for the first time.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Juvie and Luke have made parole; Fats, represented by the Innocence Project at the University of Virginia School of Law, was granted a conditional pardon by Virginia&#8217;s governor, Ralph Northam. All three are home now, released just as a pandemic would come to threaten the lives of so many others still inside. Now free, they&#8217;ve sent me text messages with videos of themselves hugging their mothers for the first time in decades, casting fishing lines from boats drifting along rivers they didn&#8217;t expect to see again, enjoying a cold beer that isn&#8217;t contraband.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">In February, after 25 years, Virginia passed a bill making people incarcerated for at least 20 years for crimes they committed before their 18th birthdays eligible for parole. Men who imagined they would die in prison now may see daylight. Terell will be eligible. These years later, he&#8217;s the mentor we searched for, helping to organize, from the inside, community events for children, and he&#8217;s spoken publicly about learning to view his crimes through the eyes of his victim&#8217;s family. My man Anthony was 19 when he committed his crime. In the last few years, he&#8217;s organized poetry readings, book clubs and fatherhood classes. When Gregory Fairchild, a professor at the Darden School of Business at the University of Virginia, began an entrepreneurship program at Dillwyn Correctional Center, Anthony was among the graduates, earning all three of the certificates that it offered. He worked to have me invited as the commencement speaker, and what I remember most is watching him share a meal with his parents for the first time since his arrest. But he must pray that the governor grants him a conditional pardon, as he did for Fats.</p></div>