--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/football/2020/10/20/TELEMMGLPICT000241832032_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqEnP_QY5SN62ON5CdyJyOrTGP8cxe782ZtHOvVwhm4Bw.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Less is more: the lesson that Champions League reformers refuse to learn 
description: > 
  As Telegraph Sport reported on Tuesday, there is growing appetite to increase the Champions League group stages to 36 teams.Essentially, the Champions League proposals are an answer to two questions.The big five leagues are loathe to give up these berths — so expanding the Champions League is the only way to allow more actual league champions to take part.And yet, however questionable the motives for the reforms, the group stages of the Champions League have become increasingly staid, and devoid of jeopardy.What chance have Dynamo Kyiv of qualifying from their Champions League group this season ahead of one of Juventus and Barcelona? 
keywords: > 
  refuse, reformers, structure, league, games, learn, group, champions, way, european, lesson, teams, stages, big 
date: 1603248293.3414483 
--- 
<div><p>How do you ruin a sports competition? The world over, the answer is the same: keep adding more fixtures.</p>
<p>This is the simple formula that helped turn the Big Bash from a captivating T20 tournament to a sapping drag so deprived of star talent that its broadcasters are attempting to negotiate down their contract. It helped bring Super Rugby to the brink of collapse long before Covid-19 struck.&#160;</p>
<p>Now, it seems, the Champions League may be going the same way. As Telegraph Sport reported on Tuesday, there is <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/football/2020/10/19/exclusive-uefa-ready-consider-expanding-champions-league-36/">growing appetite to increase the Champions League group stages</a> to 36 teams. At the same time, the number of group games per side would increase from six to 10. Today&#8217;s masters of sport can put a price on everything &#8212;&#160;except the value of scarcity.&#160;</p>
<p>Essentially, the Champions League proposals are an answer to two questions. The first is how to get the continent&#8217;s biggest clubs the extra European matches they have pushed for relentlessly in recent years. The second is what Uefa can do for mid-sized domestic leagues.</p>
<p>Before the 2018 Champions League, the big five leagues pushed forward changes guaranteeing themselves 19 of the 32 group spots every year, meaning that Ajax had to qualify for the Champions League the year after reaching the semi-finals and winning the Eredivisie. The big five leagues are loathe to give up these berths &#8212;&#160;so expanding the Champions League is the only way to allow more actual league champions to take part.</p>
<p>It is a classic sporting compromise, because it doesn&#8217;t involve any big teams giving anything up. In lieu of the richest countries having to lose something, the expansion of places is the only alternative. And if it can be done in a way that guarantees the biggest clubs an extra four Champions League games, so much the better.&#160;</p>
<p>So while these proposals are different to the European Club Association&#8217;s vision of a competition guaranteeing entry to the biggest teams in perpetuity, they are also not that different. The 10 group games per side would align with the vision of Andrea Agnelli, the head of the ECA and president of Juventus, for more matches and more chances for the aristocracy of European football to grow their revenues and international brands.&#160;&#160;</p>
<p>And yet, however questionable the motives for the reforms, the group stages of the Champions League have become increasingly staid, and devoid of jeopardy. As the European game has become more stratified, the identities of the last 16 have become increasingly predictable, culminating in the last 16 coming entirely from the big five leagues last year.&#160;</p>
<p>The proposed reforms could yet help reinvigorate the group stages. The radical option is to place the 36 teams in a Swiss-style tournament, playing 10 games apiece &#8212;&#160;with the games of roughly equal difficulty for each side &#8212;&#160;and each team grouped together in one table.</p>
<p>Such a structure would produce a more varied fixture list, avoiding sides playing the same opponents twice. It could also be fairer than the current group stages. What chance have Dynamo Kyiv of qualifying from their Champions League group this season ahead of one of Juventus and Barcelona? Under a Swiss-style tournament, teams&#8217;&#160;fates would depend less on the luck of the draw;&#160;what would matter is how they fared against the field as a whole, not three other sides.&#160;</p>
<p>Rather than groups of four, in which two teams may be far stronger than the others, hierarchies could be more fluid. &#8220;The Swiss system should theoretically have a fairer structure,&#8221; explains Alex Krumer, an expert in the structure of sports competitions from&#160;Molde University College. &#8220;The Swiss system should increase the number of games between teams from similar abilities.&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p>A Swiss-style tournament would bring the obvious risk of overcomplication, although there is also a certain simplicity to all Champions League teams being ranked in the same way. A system in which the top 16 from the league automatically qualify for the last 16 risks a rise in dead rubbers, Krumer believes. But if organised in the right way - perhaps with play-offs to determine the final spots in the last 16 - the structure could be designed to maximise the number of meaningful games.&#160;</p>
<p>Yet even if some of these reforms may be desirable, they could have been brought forward without expanding the group stages: reducing the guaranteed spots for the big five leagues could have accomplished the same result. That, of course, is politically impossible. And so even those who believe the Champions League group stages have long been overdue a reboot will fear that these envisaged reforms could be another step towards a European Super League by another name.</p>
<p>Indeed, the trajectory of the European game is such that the biggest clubs are unlikely to be sated by 10 group games for long. Far more than an overlong group stage, this is the biggest concern. Should the new structure flop, Agnelli and co could argue the reforms haven&#8217;t gone far enough. And should it succeed, it could be presented as proof that what fans and broadcasters crave is even more of the same.</p>
</div>