--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/11/multimedia/11elections-briefing-harrison/11elections-briefing-harrison-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Lindsey Graham’s Challenger Raises a Record Amount in Senate History 
description: > 
  Lindsey Graham’s Challenger Raises a Record Amount in Senate History Dr. Fauci said the Trump campaign took his words out of context and used them in an ad without his permission.“The last thing I can tell you Donald Trump needs in the world is this job,” the younger Mr. Trump said.The counterprogramming by the campaigns underscores the cultural divide between Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump on the preservation of certain institutions that Mr. Trump and many of his supporters hold sacrosanct.Still, some of the issues are among those Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris themselves disagreed on during the Democratic primary race.Just last week, Mr. Trump halted stimulus talks abruptly, and the White House is now seeking to revive them. 
date: 1602464150.8430228 
--- 
Lindsey Graham’s Challenger Raises a Record Amount in Senate History Dr. Fauci said the Trump campaign took his words out of context and used them in an ad without his permission. On Monday, President Trump will hold a rally in Florida and Joe Biden will travel to Ohio. This briefing has ended. Follow our latest coverage of the 2020 election.

Jaime Harrison, who is challenging Senator Lindsey Graham in South Carolina, raised more money last quarter than any Senate candidate in history. Jaime Harrison at the kickoff of his Senate campaign in Orangeburg, S.C. Credit... Travis Dove for The New York Times Jaime Harrison, the Democrat challenging Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, raised an astonishing $57 million in the third quarter of 2020, the highest quarterly fund-raising total for any Senate candidate in United States history. Mr. Harrison did not so much break the record as shatter it: Before this year, the record was $38 million in a quarter, raised by former Representative Beto O’Rourke of Texas during his challenge to Senator Ted Cruz in 2018. Mr. Graham has not yet filed his third-quarter report with the Federal Election Commission, but Mr. Harrison’s quarterly total is more than double what Mr. Graham reported raising in the previous six quarters combined. From South Carolina to Maine to Alaska, Democratic challengers in races that will determine control of the Senate have been out-raising incumbents for months. But money began to arrive at extraordinary rates after Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg died last month and Senate Republicans pledged to push through a replacement despite the narrow window before the election and their blockade of President Barack Obama’s nominee in 2016. Money, of course, does not guarantee victory. Mr. O’Rourke lost his race, and Mr. Graham still has a good chance of winning this one. Two of the three most prominent election forecasters — Inside Elections and Larry Sabato’s Crystal Ball at the University of Virginia — say he is slightly favored to win, while the third, the Cook Political Report, calls the race a tossup. But Mr. Harrison’s enormous fund-raising total, a majority of which came from out-of-state donors, speaks to the intense Democratic energy nationwide that has enabled him to run a competitive race in what would, in a normal year, have been a safe Republican state. President Trump won South Carolina by more than 14 percentage points in 2016, and Mr. Graham won his last race, in 2014, by more than 15 points. It also speaks to Democratic voters’ specific anger at Mr. Graham, who has become one of Mr. Trump's most vocal defenders and, as chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, is leading the charge to confirm Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court after saying previously that he would not support filling a vacancy in an election year. —

Eric Trump conceded that his father ‘lost a fortune,’ but dismissed questions about influence-peddling. Eric Trump, the son of President Donald Trump, spoke at a campaign rally for his father in Monroe, N.C., last week. Credit... Nell Redmond/Associated Press President Trump’s son Eric on Sunday angrily dismissed a New York Times investigation showing that more than 200 companies, special-interest groups and foreign governments obtained favors from the Trump administration while patronizing Mr. Trump’s properties, earning the president millions of dollars. Appearing on the ABC News program “This Week,” Eric Trump deflected when asked to comment on the investigation. He denounced the news media, listed what he said were accomplishments of his father’s administration, insinuated financial impropriety by Joseph R. Biden Jr. and said his father had “lost a fortune” as a result of being president. But he did not rebut any of The Times’s specific findings or give a clear answer to any of the questions asked by the host, Jon Karl. “The last thing I can tell you Donald Trump needs in the world is this job,” the younger Mr. Trump said. “He wakes up in the morning, and he has to fight you and he has to fight the entire media and he has to fight the Democrats, and he gets punched in the head every single day. And he wakes up and he fights for this country, and he fights against the lunacy of the radical left.” In contrast to the president’s contention that he was a Washington outsider who would “drain the swamp” when he took office, The Times investigation revealed that Mr. Trump not only did not disentangle himself from his business empire, but that a pay-to-play culture had permeated his presidency. Mr. Trump turned his own resorts into the Beltway’s new back rooms, with companies and other special-interest groups spending millions booking conferences and rooms at his hotel in Washington and other properties, and on membership fees at his Mar-a-Lago club in Florida. They have been able to parlay their access to the president into federal funding, contracts, regulatory changes and ambassadorships. When Mr. Karl suggested to Eric Trump that the Times investigation showed “at the very least a huge appearance of a conflict of interest,” Mr. Trump said that tens of millions of people stayed at the family’s properties every year — seemingly playing down the significance of the patronage from special-interest groups and foreign governments. The president placed his two adult sons at the helm of the Trump Organization when he took office in 2017, but The Times reported that he still kept watch on properties run by the company. The Times’s investigation found that President Trump’s finances had been in steep decline for several years before he entered the White House. The pace of massive profits that flowed his way thanks to “The Apprentice” — a total of $427.4 million from the show, endorsements, and licensing deals — had fallen sharply and consistently after 2011. The reporting was part of an ongoing examination of Mr. Trump’s finances by The Times, which revealed that he had used much of his reality television fortune to buy and prop-up a collection of money-losing golf courses that required regular infusions of cash. But when the money from entertainment fell, he sold off more than $200 million in stocks and bonds, leaving him with comparatively little, and burned through much of the cash on hand in his businesses. The investigation also found that regular large losses at Mr. Trump’s core businesses wiped away much of the income tax obligation on his entertainment fortune. After refunds, Mr. Trump paid no federal income taxes in 11 years from 2000 through 2017, and only $750 in two other years. He also faces an active I.R.S. audit of a $72.9 million tax refund that he claimed, and received, after declaring huge losses nearly a decade ago. The investigation also found that he had personally guaranteed more than $300 million in loans coming due within four years. — Maggie Astor, Russ Buettner and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump, still recovering from Covid, plans a return to campaign rallies. Image President Trump after an appearance before hundreds on the South Lawn of the White House on Saturday. Credit... Doug Mills/The New York Times As Election Day draws ever closer, President Trump is leaning into the kind of campaigning he feels most comfortable with. He is set to return to holding rallies on Monday, just over a week after he announced he had contracted the coronavirus and with stimulus negotiations in perilous standing. His looming return to the campaign trail comes as Joseph R. Biden Jr. has been taking an economic populist message to blue-collar counties across the country, framing the election as “Scranton versus Park Avenue.” In a social media post on Sunday that was hidden by Twitter, Mr. Trump claimed that he was “immune” from the virus and that the resumption of his political rallies would not pose a danger to himself or others. Twitter put a warning on the post, saying that it violated its rules about spreading misleading and potentially harmful information about the virus. “A total and complete sign off from White House Doctors yesterday,” Mr. Trump tweeted. “That means I can’t get it (immune), and can’t give it. Very nice to know!!!” The president, still recovering from the virus, held an event on Saturday at the White House where he delivered a brief speech to a few hundred supporters gathered on the White House lawn who called the event a “peaceful protest” in honor of “law and order.” It was not a campaign event, but it often resembled one. On Monday, Mr. Trump is scheduled to return to the campaign trail in Florida. He will be leaving behind fragile and critical negotiations for the next round of economic stimulus bills. Those negotiations are fracturing his own party in the Senate and are no closer to completion than they were days ago when Mr. Trump abruptly canceled the talks. Mr. Biden, who does not have publicly scheduled travel on Sunday, hammered home an economic message in Erie County, Pa., on Saturday, quickly ticking through his “Build Back Better” plan with a direct promise to create more union jobs. He will travel to Ohio on Monday where he will again address his economic plan. — Nick Corasaniti and

On the eve of Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s confirmation hearings, Democrats and Republicans make their cases. The hearing room for the Senate Judiciary Committee is prepared in the Hart Senate Office Building in Washington on Sunday, Oct. 11. Credit... Stefani Reynolds for The New York Times Democrats sharpened their case against Judge Amy Coney Barrett on Sunday, warning on the eve of contentious Supreme Court confirmation hearings that her presence on the court would threaten the Affordable Care Act and abortion rights, which are popular with a majority of Americans. “She is being sent on assignment to the Supreme Court by President Trump,” Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said on NBC’s “Meet the Press.” “And we know what that assignment is: eliminate the Affordable Care Act, which protects 23 million Americans, and be there if the president needs her in an election contest.” Locked in the minority with few procedural delay tools, Democrats have all but conceded they cannot stop Republicans’ drive to confirm Judge Barrett by Election Day, cementing a 6-to-3 conservative majority on the nation’s highest court. But they are aiming to use four days of nationally televised confirmation hearings to exact a steep political price by galvanizing liberals, independents and especially women to expel Republicans from the Senate majority and the White House next month. Republicans sense the political peril and aim to use the hearings to calm unease among moderates about their hasty timeline and to reset the terms of a campaign drifting away from them. They will reintroduce Judge Barrett, an appeals court judge and Notre Dame law professor, as a dazzling legal scholar and mother of seven, largely downplaying the promise of politically divisive conservative court victories in favor of a remarkable personal biography. They will also try to bait Democrats into coming after Judge Barrett’s faith, in hopes they can stir up a backlash reminiscent of the 2018 confirmation of Justice Brett M. Kavanaugh, which electrified the Republican base just before the midterm elections. “I hope we don’t see Senate Democrats turning it into a political circus like they did with Justice Kavanaugh,” Senator Ted Cruz, Republican of Texas, said on “Meet the Press.” “I hope we don’t see the kind of personal smears, smears directed at her family, directed at her faith.” The hearings, which will run until Thursday, are proceeding despite a coronavirus outbreak tied to a White House ceremony last month announcing Judge Barrett’s nomination. It sickened at least two Republicans on the Judiciary Committee, prompting Democrats to demand a delay. But Republicans do not have time to spare, and will allow lawmakers uncomfortable participating in person to join the hearings by video. —

Biden embraces Indigenous Peoples Day while Trump sticks to Columbus Day. Image New York City was host to celebrations of both Columbus Day, left, and Indigenous People’s Day in 2019. Credit... Bebeto Matthews/Associated Press; Jeremy Dennis for The New York Times President Trump and Joseph R. Biden Jr. have clashed over military base names, the Confederate flag and now a federal holiday: Columbus Day. It’s the latest front in the culture war that has been stoked by Mr. Trump since the police killing of George Floyd in May, which created a reckoning across the nation over symbols of racism and oppression. On Monday, the Biden campaign will hold a virtual event celebrating National Indigenous Peoples Day, followed a few hours later by an Italian-Americans for Trump Columbus Day rally in Philadelphia led by former New York Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. Senator Elizabeth Warren, whom Mr. Trump has repeatedly slurred as “Pocahontas” over her description of her ancestry, will be part of the Biden campaign’s program on Monday. It will also give a platform to two Native American members of Congress, Representatives Deb Haaland and Sharice Davids. The observance of National Indigenous Peoples Day by the Biden campaign comes as a number of cities no longer recognize Columbus Day. Critics say that the holiday, which has been a federal holiday since 1934, represents the atrocities of colonialism perpetrated by the Italian explorer. Defenders contend that the movement to cancel the holiday is an affront to Italian-Americans. The counterprogramming by the campaigns underscores the cultural divide between Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump on the preservation of certain institutions that Mr. Trump and many of his supporters hold sacrosanct. Mr. Trump has resisted calls by Black veterans to remove the names of Confederate officers from several Army bases and was criticized by Mr. Biden for his refusal to condemn displaying the Confederate flag. Amid widespread protests over systemic racism, the president has also threatened to imprison of anyone who vandalizes statues. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Trump claims to be immune to the coronavirus and says his cutting-edge treatment was ‘pretty routine.’ President Trump arriving at a campaign rally in Duluth, Minn., on Sept. 30. Credit... Erin Schaff/The New York Times President Trump said in an interview on Fox News on Sunday that he was taking “pretty routine” medicine to treat his coronavirus infection, though some of his treatments were aggressive and experimental, and added that he is now “totally free of spreading” the virus. The president made the comments in an interview with Maria Bartiromo on “Sunday Morning Futures,” adding that he is prepared to resume campaign travel on Monday. “The medications that I took were standard, pretty routine,” Mr. Trump said. In fact, he received a cutting-edge combination treatment: remdesivir, an antiviral medication; dexamethasone, a steroid only recently shown to reduce death rates in severe cases; and an experimental cocktail of monoclonal antibodies, designed to turn back the virus shortly after infection. Mr. Trump pointed out that he was on a balcony for an event on Saturday at the White House attended by a few hundred people who gathered on the South Lawn, and therefore posed little threat of infecting others. “I think on the whole, it is probably a safe assumption he is no longer contagious,” Dr. Scott Gottlieb, former commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, said on “Face the Nation” on Sunday, citing some of the data released about the president’s test results. “I think the question now is, has his health been restored?” Dr. Gottlieb said. “And we know that a lot of patients have lingering effects from Covid.” Mr. Trump insisted he’s immune to the virus now. “It does give you immunity,” the president said, although he acknowledged it’s unclear for how long. Scientists do not yet fully understand how long immunity to the coronavirus may last following an infection, nor how strong it may be. Mr. Trump tried to raise questions about whether his opponent in the upcoming presidential election, former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., could be sick, claiming he had been coughing “horribly” yesterday. The Biden campaign has released results of the candidate’s coronavirus testing, which so far have been negative. The White House has declined to do the same for the president, even in a doctor’s memo on Saturday declaring him no longer at risk of transmitting the virus. —

Amy Coney Barrett lays out her vision of the court in a copy of her opening statement released ahead of her confirmation hearings. Supreme Court nominee Judge Amy Coney Barrett, who will appear before the Senate Judiciary Committee this week. Credit... Anna Moneymaker/The New York Times In Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s opening statement before the Senate Judiciary Committee this week, as she begins hearings for her nomination to the Supreme Court, she plans to speak of having “humility about the responsibility I have been asked to undertake,” according to a copy of the statement released in advance of the first hearing tomorrow. Judge Barrett writes that she has “appreciation for those who came before me” and invokes both former Justice Sandra Day O’Connor and the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, whose seat Judge Barrett has been nominated to fill. “I have been nominated to fill Justice Ginsburg’s seat, but no one will ever take her place,” Judge Barrett says in the statement. “I will be forever grateful for the path she marked and the life she led.” The judge, who currently serves in Indiana, plans to speak extensively about her biography and her family. She will also talk about the late Justice Antonin Scalia, with whom she clerked and to whom her supporters have compared her. “Justice Scalia taught me more than just law,” she writes in the statement. “He was devoted to his family, resolute in his beliefs, and fearless of criticism. And as I embarked on my own legal career, I resolved to maintain that same perspective.” “There is a tendency in our profession to treat the practice of law as all-consuming, while losing sight of everything else. But that makes for a shallow and unfulfilling life,” she says in the statement. “I worked hard as a lawyer and a professor; I owed that to my clients, my students, and myself. But I never let the law define my identity or crowd out the rest of my life.” She also plans to say that courts “are not designed to solve every problem or right every wrong in our public life. The policy decisions and value judgments of government must be made by the political branches elected by and accountable to the People. The public should not expect courts to do so, and courts should not try.” She will say that she tries to look at every judicial opinion she writes through “the perspective of the losing party. I ask myself how would I view the decision if one of my children was the party I was ruling against: Even though I would not like the result, would I understand that the decision was fairly reasoned and grounded in the law? That is the standard I set for myself in every case, and it is the standard I will follow as long as I am a judge on any court.” —

Fauci says his words in a Trump campaign ad were ‘taken out of context.’ Image Dr. Anthony S. Fauci Credit... Pool photo by Graeme Jennings Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the government’s top infectious disease expert and one of the nation’s most popular public officials, took issue Sunday with a decision by the Trump campaign to feature him in an advertisement without his consent and said it had misrepresented his comments. “I was totally surprised,” Dr. Fauci said. “The use of my name and my words by the G.O.P. campaign was done without my permission, and the actual words themselves were taken out of context, based on something that I said months ago regarding the entire effort of the task force.” CNN first reported Dr. Fauci’s displeasure with the campaign ad. The spot seeks to use Mr. Trump’s illness with Covid-19 and apparent recovery to improve the negative image many Americans have of his handling of the coronavirus. “I can’t imagine that anybody could be doing more,” the ad shows Dr. Fauci saying — though in fact he was talking about the broader government effort. Dr. Fauci, who said he had never publicly endorsed a political candidate in decades of public work, has long had an uneasy relationship with President Trump. Just a little over a week ago, he clashed with his boss over his position on mask-wearing. In his debate with former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., Mr. Trump claimed that Dr. Fauci had initially said “masks are not good — then he changed his mind.” When Mr. Biden said wearing masks could save tens of thousands of lives, Mr. Trump contended that “Dr. Fauci said the opposite.” In fact, in the early days of the pandemic, Dr. Fauci and other health experts discouraged the general public from rushing out to buy masks because they were worried about shortages for health workers. Their position changed when it became clear that asymptomatic transmission was spreading the virus. Dr. Fauci may favor measured language, but his criticisms of the White House — and, implicitly, the man in the Oval Office — over the handling of the pandemic have not gone unnoticed — including by hard-core Trump supporters who claim he is part of a “deep state” conspiracy to undermine the president. On Friday, Dr. Fauci called the White House ceremony announcing Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s nomination to the Supreme Court a “superspreader event.” “It was in a situation where people were crowded together and not wearing masks,” he said. “The data speak for themselves.” Dr. Fauci remains highly popular with the American public, a fact that appears to have made a big impression on Mr. Trump. Given the clashes with the temperamental leader, and after some White House officials launched a campaign to discredit Dr. Fauci, speculation swirled that his time as one of the leaders in the pandemic fight might be running out, even if the president can’t fire him directly because he is not a political appointee. Mr. Trump has insisted that is not the case. On Sunday, the Trump campaign appeared unperturbed by Dr. Fauci’s comments about the ad. “These are Dr. Fauci’s own words,” its communications director, Tim Murtaugh, told CNN. “The video is from a nationally broadcast television interview in which Dr. Fauci was praising the work of the Trump Administration. The words spoken are accurate, and directly from Dr. Fauci’s mouth.” —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Biden and Harris are trying to balance their centrist line with what progressives want. Image Joseph R. Biden and Kamala Harris visiting the American Indian Veterans National Memorial with Cindy McCain on Thursday in Phoenix. Credit... Hilary Swift for The New York Times During the vice-presidential debate last week, several issues came up, including the Supreme Court, climate change and taxes, that underscored the tightrope Joseph R. Biden Jr. and Kamala Harris are trying to walk as they seek to balance appeals to progressives and moderates alike. President Trump and Republicans have used these issues in particular to try to paint Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris as prisoners of the party’s left wing, even while Mr. Biden, who has a substantial lead in the polls, has run as an unapologetic centrist. Still, some of the issues are among those Mr. Biden and Ms. Harris themselves disagreed on during the Democratic primary race. On Thursday, those differences proved to be a particularly thorny challenge for Ms. Harris as she tried to defend Mr. Biden on the debate stage against Republican attacks. Complicating matters for Mr. Biden is the pressure he continues to face from the left, which viewed him as an imperfect steward for the party. In fact, Mr. Biden has been reluctant to support transformative policies favored by the left, like expanding the size of the Supreme Court or supporting the Green New Deal. In recent weeks, he has refused to give an answer about his views on increasing the size of the Supreme Court, telling reporters on Thursday, “They’ll know my opinion on court-packing when the election is over,” a remark that incensed Republicans and left Mr. Biden looking evasive. On Saturday, he again dodged the question when asked about whether voters deserved to know his position before Election Day, saying, “The only packing going on is, this court is being packed now by the Republicans after the vote has already begun.” Certainly, there is no comparison between Mr. Biden and Mr. Trump when it comes to consistency on policy or transparency, now or over the years. Just last week, Mr. Trump halted stimulus talks abruptly, and the White House is now seeking to revive them. And he and his team have been evasive or nonresponsive on a host of issues, from details of his health status to his own health care policy. — Sydney Ember, Thomas Kaplan and