--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://cdn.vox-cdn.com/thumbor/cK5TAUIH4_fVENEfPblK1RkoY3I=/0x461:4578x2858/fit-in/1200x630/cdn.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/20075491/1163258847.jpg.jpg 
title: > 
  Lipinets-Clayton, more: Boxing TV schedule for Oct. 22-24 
description: > 
  Thursday, Oct. 22UFC Fight Pass, 7:00 pm ET, Alan Solis vs Eddy Valencia, Luis Torres vs Orlando Zepeda.DAZN, 9:00 pm ET, Juan Francisco Estrada vs TBA, Roman Gonzalez vs Israel Gonzalez, Julio Cesar Martinez vs TBA.Saturday, Oct. 24SHO, 9:00 pm ET, Sergey Lipinets vs Custio Clayton, Xavier Martinez vs Claudio Marrero, Malik Hawkins vs Subriel Matias.The original main event, Lipinets-Abdukakhorov, was a better fight, but Lipinets-Clayton isn’t the worst thing for a very short notice replacement.Short notice might be his biggest advantage in this matchup, and on the positive side, again, for short notice this is an OK fight, and hey, at least Clayton is finally taking the swing. 
date: 1603072136.076517 
--- 
<div><h2 id="sFhWut">Thursday, Oct. 22</h2>
<p id="KxN2YV"><strong>UFC Fight Pass</strong>, 7:00 pm ET, <strong>Alan Solis vs Eddy Valencia, Luis Torres vs Orlando Zepeda</strong>. Another RJJ Boxing card from the Marinaterra Hotel in San Carlos, Mexico. Nothing special about this, some not exactly top tier prospects in eight-round fights, some others in four-round fights. We&#8217;ll probably be here, but I&#8217;m not guaranteeing it. Almost nobody watches these shows and they&#8217;re also not that great even from an entertainment standpoint. I could be nicer, I guess, but the shows could be better, and then I would be. <strong>BLH may have live coverage</strong>.</p>
<h2 id="CDLzHK">Friday, Oct. 23</h2>
<p id="MzCunN"><a href="http://bit.ly/blhdazn">DAZN</a>, 12:30 pm ET, <strong>Fabio Turchi vs Nikolajs Grisunins, Maxim Prodan vs Nicola Cristofori</strong>. Matchroom&#8217;s back in Italy co-promoting with OPI Since 82, with two minor IBF trinkets on the line at cruiser (Turchi-Grisunins) and welter (Prodan-Cristofori). We&#8217;ll also see Dario Morello vs Andrea Scarpa at 147 and some other fights. Turchi had been building some minor momentum but was upset by Tommy McCarthy about a year ago, despite the best efforts of judge Guido Cavalleri, and hasn&#8217;t fought since. <strong>BLH may have live coverage</strong>.</p>
<p id="kqrMGX"><a href="http://bit.ly/blhdazn">DAZN</a>, 9:00 pm ET, <strong>Juan Francisco Estrada vs TBA, Roman Gonzalez vs Israel Gonzalez, Julio Cesar Martinez vs TBA</strong>. This card is on pretty thin ice right now, with <a href="https://www.badlefthook.com/2020/10/16/21519989/carlos-cuadras-maximino-flores-test-positive-covid-october-23-fights-jeopardy-dazn-boxing-news-2020">both Carlos Cuadras and Maximino Flores testing positive for COVID on Friday</a>. Prospects Diego Pacheco, Austin Williams, and Otha Jones III will also be in action from Mexico City, if there is indeed action in Mexico City. <strong>BLH will have live coverage if the show happens in any form on DAZN</strong>.</p>
<h2 id="69dH44">Saturday, Oct. 24</h2>
<p id="rqeOwB"><strong>SHO</strong>, 9:00 pm ET, <strong>Sergey Lipinets vs Custio Clayton, Xavier Martinez vs Claudio Marrero, Malik Hawkins vs Subriel Matias</strong>. The original main event, Lipinets-Abdukakhorov, was a better fight, but Lipinets-Clayton isn&#8217;t the worst thing for a very short notice replacement. Clayton was an Olympian at London 2012, yes, but is also 33 years old now and while unbeaten, he&#8217;s had a very soft run as a pro given his age and amateur credentials. Short notice might be his biggest advantage in this matchup, and on the positive side, again, for short notice this is an OK fight, and hey, at least Clayton is finally taking the swing. Martinez-Marrero is a nice test for Martinez, a 22-year-old prospect at 130, and Hawkins-Matias is also well matched at 140. <strong>BLH will have live coverage</strong>.</p>
  
</div>