--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8f4656b0526700185cc753?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Litigation finance is going mainstream. Here's how a US stock listing for top player Burford Capital could transform the landscape for investors placing bets on lawsuits. 
description: > 
  B urford Capital became the first litigation finance firm to trade on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, enabling it to access a deeper capital market.Burford is also listed on the London Stock Exchange, and is now the first legal finance firm to be dual-listed.This move follows the launch of the International Legal Finance Association in September, which Burford and six other firms formed to represent the growing commercial legal finance industry.Burford's listing, however, suggests that the business of financing legal assets for both corporations and law firms is now becoming "mainstream," said Perla."Litigation finance is basically almost like investment bankers pitching a deal," he said. 
keywords: > 
  mainstream, player, lawsuits, litigation, legal, shift, transform, financing, stock, listing, landscape, placing, investors, finance, revenue, inhouse, nyse, business 
date: 1603384958.996417 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>B<strong>urford Capital became the first litigation finance firm to trade on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, enabling it to access a deeper capital market.</strong></li>
<li><strong><strong>The </strong></strong><strong>listing suggests that the business of financing legal assets for both corporations and law firms is now becoming "mainstream," signaling a potential shift in perception of third-party funding.</strong></li>
<li><strong>The number of in-house and private lawyers who use funding has increased by 105% in the past three years, according to a new survey by Burford.</strong></li>
<li><strong>Corporations' in-house legal departments can become revenue generators rather than cost centers by actively pursuing lawsuits as plaintiffs through additional funding.</strong></li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Burford Capital became the first litigation funder to make a debut on the New York Stock Exchange on Monday, marking a potential shift in third-party financers' position in the legal community, according to some experts.</p><p>Burford is also listed on the London Stock Exchange, and is now the first legal finance firm to be dual-listed. Its entry into the NYSE, known for its prestige and strong regulations, enables it to access a deeper capital market and demonstrate the level of sophistication it has, said Christopher Bogart, CEO of Burford, at a media event.</p><p>This move follows the launch of the International Legal Finance Association in September, which Burford and six other firms formed to represent the growing commercial legal finance industry.</p><p>"The imprimatur that a NYSE company has, the regulatory scrutiny that entails, and the confidence that it gives people in the marketplace will change the types of corporations that will increasingly want to do business with us," David Perla, Burford's co-chief operating officer, told Business Insider.</p><h2><strong>Burford's NYSE listing in favorable market conditions can pave the way for more growth for other legal finance funds</strong></h2><p>Litigation funders typically invest in lawsuits after assessing their risks and potential payout. If they lose the case, they don't get their money back, but if they win, they win big. Litigation finance has <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/size-of-litigation-finance-industry-how-it-work-2020-2">historically incited skepticism from some in the legal profession</a>, who warn that behind-the-scenes lending could shape lawsuits' outcomes.</p><p>Burford's listing, however, suggests that the business of financing legal assets for both corporations and law firms is now becoming "mainstream," said Perla.&#160;</p><p><strong>Read more:</strong> <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/legalist-eva-shang-litigation-finance-funding-startup-growth-target-2020-10">How litigation financing startup Legalist plans to leverage its tech to scale up to $1 billion in assets under management</a></p><p>It comes at a time when the number of in-house and private lawyers who use litigation funding has increased by 105% in the past three years, from 37% of 499 respondents in 2017 to 76% this year, according to a <a href="https://www.burfordcapital.com/media-room/media-room-container/2020-legal-finance-report-announced/">new survey released by Burford</a> on Monday.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"We do feel very optimistic about the market," said Perla. The survey additionally found that over half of respondents said their company has abandoned meritorious claims due to cost, and 70% said they have claims worth at least $20 million for which they could potentially use finance.</p><p>Burford's entry into the NYSE opens up the path for more growth &#8212;&#160;and possibly similar listings &#8212; for other litigation funders.</p><p>"Now that one of the world's largest funders is publicly listed in the US, we expect a significant increase in awareness of the space, along with even greater transparency for investors and funding recipients," said Jay Greenberg, CEO and cofounder of litigation funder, LexShares.&#160;</p><p>Greenberg added that the increased investor awareness "may potentially establish a path for other commercial litigation funders to pursue US listings."</p><h2><strong>Corporations' in-house legal departments can become revenue generators rather than cost centers through third-party funding</strong></h2><p>On top of becoming a big step toward the mainstreaming of litigation finance, Burford's NYSE debut is also part of a larger trend of corporate in-house departments wanting to behave as business units, said Raj Goyle, CEO of Bodhala, a legal tech company that analyzes legal billing data. Third-party financing allows these corporate legal departments to offload some of the risk to the litigation funder.</p><p>"A legal department can actually generate revenue for the business, which is a complete 180, because it traditionally has just been a cost center," Goyle explained. "The notion that the legal department can actually go out and be a revenue generator is quite innovative. I do think there's an increasing appetite from corporates for funding."</p><p>The shift in the role of in-house lawyers from reactively defending lawsuits to actively pursuing them as plaintiffs is reflected in the Burford survey: 61% of in-house respondents said they're likely to pursue claims as plaintiffs through affirmative recovery programs to generate cash and offset legal costs in the downturn.</p><p><strong>Read more</strong>: <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/virus-lawsuits-may-spur-litigation-funding-2020-6">Private equity and law firms like Kirkland &amp; Ellis could make millions by investing in Covid-19 lawsuits &#8212; here's how it works</a></p>
<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-clusterstock-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>While some critics might say that this is incentivizing lawsuits with the goal of generating revenue for both the litigation funder and the corporation, the flip side of the same coin is that litigation funders are innovating financing in the legal industry, according to Goyle.</p><p>"Litigation finance is basically almost like investment bankers pitching a deal," he said.</p><p>Goyle thinks that Burford's entry into the NYSE will "absolutely" bring about a further shift in the perception surrounding litigation funders.</p><p>"There's already a generational shift in the legal industry, with younger GCs and lawyers understanding that the rules of the past 50 years won't be the same for the next 50 years," he said. "Litigation finance is here to stay."</p>
                  </div>