--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/football/2020/10/17/TELEMMGLPICT000242149917_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqaRL1kC4G7DT9ZsZm6Pe3PUPXbRlaI4_qh_dM2Z5d688.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Liverpool should feel aggrieved about Jordan Pickford but marginal offside complaints are not as valid 
description: > 
  Scrap VAR for offsides completely and go back to putting the decision in the eyes of the assistant referees.It would also require the grown-up acceptance that the officials are human and, yes, really big glaring mistakes will occur.That should mean an improvement but, by ultimately relying on the eyes and judgment of a human being, would remain subjective.And then we accept that, yes, as sure as night follows day, some decisions will be in our favour and some will go against us.How do you think Var can be improved? 
date: 1603105925.3504589 
--- 
<div><p>Scrap VAR for offsides completely and go back to putting the decision in the eyes of the assistant referees. That would certainly mean more injustices. And it would definitely mean less of that elusive &#8220;consistency&#8221; that managers so crave. It would also require the grown-up acceptance that the officials are human and, yes, really big glaring mistakes will occur.</p>
<p>The second alternative is to allow a VAR or referee to view back an initial decision without using all the lines and technological geometry that currently exist. That should mean an improvement but, by ultimately relying on the eyes and judgment of a human being, would remain subjective. And there would certainly still be inconsistency and injustice.</p>
<p>Or we do what we have now. We decide where we think offside should be and, for as long as anyone can remember, that means whether any part of an attackers&#8217; body is closer to the goalline than the second last defender. We then take what is ultimately an objective situation and we hand over to the best that modern technology can deliver in the sure knowledge that this will provide the most accurate and consistent possible decision. And then we accept that, yes, as sure as night follows day, some decisions will be in our favour and some will go against us. And that, yes, some of these decisions will be made by the very finest possible margins. And that, yes, just like in cricket, the ability to get much closer to the true decision will throw up consequences that do subtly change the game.</p>
<p>Given that no option can ever answer the utterly unrealistic demand both for &#8216;consistency&#8217; and only &#8216;clear and obvious&#8217; interventions, it is surely the best solution. And, if we really don&#8217;t like the consequences, the answer is actually to change the underlying rules rather than run from the technology that is providing more accurate, consistent and thus fairer decisions.</p>
<blockquote><strong>How do you think Var can be improved? Let us know in the comments section below</strong></blockquote>
</div>