--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/football/2020/10/21/TELEMMGLPICT000242522360_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bq7HJb7Q8i_einS_BXBxlZV2unDlwcSK_8iEoeJroehzQ.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Manchester City given breathing space by Ilkay Gundogan after careless start - but victory comes at a cost 
description: > 
  Behind to a fine run and finish from Luis Diaz, who had capitalised on familiar lapses at the back from City, the hosts equalised through Sergio Aguero’s penalty after Pepe - who else?“It was perfect for me, an incredible performance against a really good team,” said Guardiola, which, in truth, felt a rather generous assessment.City’s response was immediate, with Aguero scoring from the penalty spot after Pepe barged over Sterling moments after Gundogan had hit a post.“I know he wanted to leave but maybe we can seduce him to extend with us,” Guardiola said.Sergio Conceicao, the Porto coach, did not shake Guardiola’s hand at the end but that will not concern the Catalan too much. 
keywords: > 
  porto, given, cost, victory, walker, penalty, guardiola, treimanis, ilkay, space, start, comes, sterling, city, shot, manchester, gundogan, pepe 
date: 1603325041.7047634 
--- 
<div><p>Only time will tell if it turns out to be 10th time lucky for Manchester City in the Champions League this season but they overcame an early fright here to begin their latest pursuit of European glory with a hard-fought victory on a fractious night.</p>
<p>Porto gave it everything they had, including plenty of play-acting and some familiar theatrics from that old pantomime villain&#160;Pepe, who doubtless drew encouragement from the selective myopia of the Latvian referee, but City held their nerve, stayed patient and got the job done in the end.</p>
<p>Victory came at a cost with Fernandinho forced off soon after his introduction as a late substitute with a suspected hamstring injury that Pep Guardiola admitted could keep the Brazilian out for four to six weeks.</p>
<p>Behind to a fine run and finish from Luis Diaz, who had capitalised on familiar lapses at the back from City, the hosts equalised through Sergio Aguero&#8217;s penalty after Pepe - who else? - had flattened Raheem Sterling. But Guardiola&#8217;s men were forced to bide their time against Porto&#8217;s five-man defence, not to mention the frequent histrionics that referee Andris Treimanis fell for time and again.&#160;</p>
<p>Ilkay Gundogan eventually put City in front with a lovely free-kick on his first start since returning from a bad bout of coronavirus, before substitutes Ferran Torres and Phil Foden combined for the former to put a little gloss on the scoreline.</p>
<p>&#8220;It was perfect for me, an incredible performance against a really good team,&#8221; said Guardiola, which, in truth, felt a rather generous assessment. Gundogan, for one, saw it a little differently. &#8220;If I&#8217;m being honest we are struggling at the moment,&#8221; the Germany midfielder said. &#8220;Fernandinho went off at the end, we have players playing in different positions. I am not 100 per cent there because I had Covid. We are not all at the same moment.&#8221;</p>
<p>City managed the second half well, pounced when opportunity knocked but the first period, despite an immediate response to going behind, revealed some familiar fault lines that might have been more severely punished against more clinical opposition.&#160;</p>
<p>Guardiola suggested in the lead up he had not quite got August&#8217;s limp quarter-final exit to Lyon out of his system and the cheap mistakes and lapses of concentration that have blighted City for too long in the Champions League reared their head again at times in that opening period.</p>
<p>There was plenty to admire about Diaz&#8217;s thundering solo run and goal but it originated from a careless pass by Ruben Dias that was intercepted by Matheus Uribe and the attempts to shackle Diaz thereafter were fairly unconvincing. Having got away from Kyle Walker, the Porto winger accelerated around Rodri in the D too easily before Joao Cancelo mounted the least resistance of all, the flat-footed Portuguese halfheartedly sticking out a leg, before the Colombian fired across Ederson into the bottom corner.&#160;</p>
<p>City&#8217;s response was immediate, with Aguero scoring from the penalty spot after Pepe barged over Sterling moments after Gundogan had hit a post. Pepe would later try to win a penalty of his own when the former Real Madrid defender channeled his inner Greg Louganis by attempting an acrobatic dive after a nudge from Cancelo but fortunately, on this occasion, Treimanis was not duped. A former Barcelona coach, Guardiola, will have seen this all before from Pepe, who was equally fortunate not to concede a second penalty, and draw a red card, late on after tripping Sterling and then thrusting a leg into his side after having the temerity to accuse the England forward of play-acting.&#160;</p>
<p>Despite the equaliser, City struggled to find their rhythm. Guardiola suggested Porto had &#8220;copied and pasted&#8221; Leicester&#8217;s tactics by defending deep in great numbers but there was not the usual conviction in City&#8217;s passing and some of their movement was laboured. And defensively, they had two more moments of carelessness that Porto failed to capitalise on. Ederson&#8217;s attempt to play a first-time pass between two Porto players missed its intended target, Eric Garcia, and Uribe really should have done better with his shot but blazed over. Later, Garcia was caught inexplicably trying to play offside, despite his back being turned to the rest of his City team-mates, and was relieve to see Walker clear the ball off the line after Moussa Marega&#8217;s shot had bundled its way through.</p>
<p>Guardiola&#8217;s indulgence of Garcia is a funny one. The Spain international wants to leave for Barcelona, was dismayed a deadline day move failed to transpire and has looked very much like a man whose mind is elsewhere in recent months yet still he tends to keep getting the nod over John Stones. &#8220;I know he wanted to leave but maybe we can seduce him to extend with us,&#8221; Guardiola said. &#8220;He&#8217;s a guy who is so stable in many things.&#8221;</p>
<p>City were crying out for a spark and Gundogan finally provided it when he stroked home a free-kick after being fouled by Fabio Vieira just outside the penalty area. Porto, and Treimanis, had certainly tested City&#8217;s patience to that point. The visitors made a meal out of almost every tackle and, with the exception of a challenge by Walker, it was hard to remember a foul among City&#8217;s five bookings.</p>
<p>Gundogan&#8217;s goal was just about his last contribution before he and Aguero made way for Foden and Torres, who combined well on the left before the Spain winger sidestepped Pepe with ease and curled a shot into the far corner to make it 3-1. Sergio Conceicao, the Porto coach, did not shake Guardiola&#8217;s hand at the end but that will not concern the Catalan too much. City are up and running in the Champions League and their manager will hope this, their 10th successive season in the competition, will be the one when the waiting finally ends.</p>
</div>