--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/M7DYYFQS3YI6XISYMFFM6K4QNU.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  McConnell warns White House against making stimulus deal as Pelosi and Mnuchin inch closer 
description: > 
  ADADIn a Bloomberg interview on Tuesday, Pelosi adamantly denied that she was stringing the White House along and said she wouldn’t be negotiating if she didn’t want a deal.The comments emerged amid escalating tensions between some Republican members of Congress and Trump over stimulus negotiations.“It’s very simple: I want to do it even bigger than the Democrats,” Trump said.But that bill will exclude many provisions sought by Democrats and Trump, including a new round of $1,200 stimulus checks.McConnell’s remarks Tuesday indicate that even if Pelosi and Mnuchin do manage to reach a deal, any vote in the Senate would wait until after the election. 
keywords: > 
  mcconnell, vote, senate, mnuchin, democrats, deal, trump, house, bill, republicans, stimulus, warns, white, making, pelosi, inch 
date: 1603233672.8727317 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Pelosi and Mnuchin continued negotiating over a roughly $2 trillion economic relief package on Tuesday. Her spokesman said the &#8220;conversation provided more clarity and common ground as they move closer to an agreement.&#8221; But no deal can become law without McConnell&#8217;s blessing, and his direct warning to the White House imperils the chances of any bill becoming law in the next two weeks.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell told reporters Tuesday that if a deal were reached and passed by the House with President Trump&#8217;s support he would put it on the Senate floor &#8220;at some point&#8221; -- but did not commit to doing so before the election. </p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell has not been part of the talks, which have jumped around in chaotic fashion, and had already made his opposition to an enormous new bill clear. Republicans could lose control of the Senate based on the outcome of Novembers elections, and <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2020/10/10/prospects-more-stimulus-checks-covid-relief-fade-latest-offer-trump-draws-opposition-republicans-democrats/?itid=lk_inline_manual_9" target="_blank">members have made clear</a> to the White House that voting on a huge stimulus deal could mean the end of their majority if it scares away fiscally conservative voters. </p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The deal under discussion would provide another round of $1,200 stimulus checks, more unemployment benefits, aid for small businesses, money for coronavirus testing, and support for the health care industry, among other things.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In a Bloomberg interview on Tuesday, Pelosi adamantly denied that she was stringing the White House along and said she wouldn&#8217;t be negotiating if she didn&#8217;t want a deal. But McConnell&#8217;s remarks show the raw political calculations that both parties are dealing with two weeks before the Nov. 3 elections.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The comments emerged amid escalating tensions between some Republican members of Congress and Trump over stimulus negotiations. Trump has in recent days downplayed or dismissed conservative opposition to spending trillions more on a stimulus, saying he wants to spend even more money than Pelosi&#8217;s latest $2.2 trillion proposal. Many Republicans already balked at spending more than $1 trillion on this round of relief. Asked about McConnell&#8217;s reluctance to the stimulus, Trump said on Tuesday morning: &#8220;He&#8217;ll be onboard if something comes &#8230; Not every Republican agrees with me but they will.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Nevertheless Pelosi and Mnuchin continued their negotiations, talking for 45 minutes Tuesday afternoon as they wrangled over sticking points including liability protections for businesses and state and local aid. Pelosi had said that if they are going to vote on a deal by the end of next week, they need to agree on specific language by the end of this week.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Asked after her conversation with Mnuchin whether that could happen, Pelosi replied: &#8220;I hope so. That&#8217;s the plan. That&#8217;s what I would hope. That&#8217;s the hope, let me say that.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Her spokesman, Drew Hammill, laid out the next steps.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;On several open questions, the Speaker and the Secretary called for the committee chairs to work to resolve differences about funding levels and language," he said. "With this guidance, the two principals will continue their discussions [Wednesday] afternoon upon the Secretary&#8217;s return.&#8221; Mnuchin has been traveling in the Middle East as part of a trip to formalize parts of the Trump administration&#8217;s Abraham Accords.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows told CNBC on Tuesday afternoon that Mnuchin and Pelosi have made &#8220;good progress&#8221; and that negotiations would continue on Wednesday. Still, he said major hurdles remain, with the negotiators &#8220;several hundred billion&#8221; dollars apart and also at odds over the extent of state and local money.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Meadows also said he had several conversations with Trump about stimulus negotiations on Tuesday and that the president is &#8220;very bullish" about not letting a difference in dollar amounts stand in the way of a deal.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I want to stress: We&#8217;re not just down to a difference of language and a few dollars. We still have a ways to go,&#8221; Meadows said. &#8220;But I would say the conversations today were productive enough to have conversations tomorrow.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump, for his part, has brushed aside complaints from Senate Republicans and said they will ultimately back a package if he tells them to.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;It&#8217;s very simple: I want to do it even bigger than the Democrats,&#8221; Trump said. &#8220;They&#8217;ll be on board if something comes.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell declined to tell reporters whether he&#8217;d spoken with Trump about the issue or whether Republicans would support what Trump wanted.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;We&#8217;d have to see what it was first,&#8221; McConnell told reporters after the Senate GOP lunch.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Many Senate Republicans oppose a massive new spending bill and McConnell is not eager to hold a vote that would divide his conference just before the election, when most Senate Republicans want attention focused on the Barrett nomination.</p><p class="powa-wrapper"></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The scrambling comes amid multiple signs the economic recovery is straining. The unemployment rate remains high, the travel industry remains in rough shape, and there are growing concerns about problems in the commercial real estate sector. Many restaurants are still struggling, and some continue to go out of business seven months after the pandemic floored the American economy.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">On the Senate floor Tuesday, Republicans and Democrats battled over competing views of what should happen with stimulus legislation, trying to score political points with a series of procedural maneuvers. McConnell called a symbolic vote on a bill to inject $260 billion into the small business Paycheck Protection Program. A vote to effectively kill the legislation failed 40-57, with five Democrats crossing over to vote with Republicans.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.) bristled at the move, accusing McConnell of holding &#8220;show votes on coronavirus relief,&#8221; and countered with several procedural moves of his own that Republicans defeated.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">On Wednesday, in a rejection of Trump&#8217;s desire for a big new bill, McConnell will try to advance an approximately $500 billion bill that will include jobless benefits for the unemployed, funding for schools and the health care system, and new small business funding. But that bill will exclude many provisions sought by Democrats and Trump, including a new round of $1,200 stimulus checks.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Democrats have lambasted McConnell for trying to advance what they describe as &#8220;emaciated&#8221; bills that would provide political cover to Republicans without really solving any problems. The approximately $500 billion bill is nearly identical to a piece of legislation McConnell tried to advance last month, <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2020/09/10/senate-coronavirus-economic-relief-bill/?itid=lk_inline_manual_45" target="_blank">which Democrats opposed</a>.</p><p class="powa-wrapper"></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell&#8217;s remarks Tuesday indicate that even if Pelosi and Mnuchin do manage to reach a deal, any vote in the Senate would wait until after the election. If Democrats win a number of seats in the November elections, they could seize control of the Senate beginning in January.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Congress earlier this year approved roughly $3 trillion in aid to try and contain the economic fallout. Some of the funds appeared to help numerous sectors of the economy, but problems remain, particularly as certain programs expired.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A poll released Tuesday by The New York Times and Siena College <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/20/us/politics/biden-trump-times-poll.html" target="_blank">found overwhelming support for a $2 trillion stimulus package</a>, and many economists have urged policymakers to approve additional fiscal relief.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;The recovery has slowed and without more help it is at risk of backsliding. Neither the virus nor the economic damages it has wrought are gone, and policymakers would be making a serious mistake to act as if they were,&#8221; said Adam Ozimek, chief economist at Upwork.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Congress has not passed any relief legislation since April. House Democrats passed two far-reaching bills, but Senate Republicans rejected them. A significant minority of Senate Republicans believe enough money already has been spent and nothing more needs to be done.</p></div>