--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/M7DYYFQS3YI6XISYMFFM6K4QNU.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  McConnell warns White House against making stimulus deal before election, sources say 
description: > 
  ADBut McConnell’s remarks, made in a closed-door lunch with Senate Republicans, show the raw political calculations that both parties are dealing with two weeks before the November 3 elections.McConnell’s stance could kill any chances for passing a new relief deal in the two weeks left before the election.ADMcConnell’s remarks came as Pelosi and Mnuchin were locked in last-ditch negotiations aimed at reaching a deal Trump says he wants to pass before the election.AD“It isn’t that this day is the day we would have a deal,” Pelosi said.And he declined to say whether he’d spoken with Trump about the issue or whether Senate Republicans would support such legislation. 
keywords: > 
  deal, republicans, warns, stimulus, making, white, sources, pelosi, senate, say, trump, vote, election, democrats, house, mcconnell, negotiations 
date: 1603226179.6466703 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In a Bloomberg interview on Tuesday, Pelosi adamantly denied that she was stringing the White House along and said she wouldn&#8217;t be negotiating with the White House if she didn&#8217;t want a deal.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But McConnell&#8217;s remarks, made in a closed-door lunch with Senate Republicans, show the raw political calculations that both parties are dealing with two weeks before the November 3 elections. McConnell&#8217;s comments were confirmed by two people familiar with them who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss them.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell&#8217;s stance could kill any chances for passing a new relief deal in the two weeks left before the election. He has made his opposition clear to a new deal in the $2 trillion range Pelosi and Mnuchin are discussing. McConnell told reporters Tuesday that if such a deal were reached and passed by the House with President Trump&#8217;s support, he would put it on the Senate floor &#8220;at some point.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell did not commit to a vote before the election and his private comments to GOP senators suggested there would not be one.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell&#8217;s remarks came as Pelosi and Mnuchin were locked in last-ditch negotiations aimed at reaching a deal Trump says he wants to pass before the election.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In the Bloomberg interview, Pelosi said she has insisted that the White House and Democrats bring forward their best offers by the end of the day so they can examine key differences for a final phase of negotiations.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">She also said that if they are going to vote on a deal by the end of next week, they need to agree on specific language by the end of this week. She described herself as &#8220;optimistic&#8221; but said key differences remain, particularly on business liability protections and state aid.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;It isn&#8217;t that this day is the day we would have a deal,&#8221; Pelosi said. &#8220;It&#8217;s a day when we would have our terms on the table to be able to go to the next step. Legislation takes a long time.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In addition to the negotiations, there&#8217;s also a flurry of public posturing by all sides, much of it conflicting. Trump said Tuesday morning on &#8220;Fox and Friends&#8221; that he wants an agreement with an even larger price-tag than the $2.2 trillion Pelosi has proposed, while alleging the House speaker does not want to reach a deal. Pelosi has said this isn&#8217;t true, but added that she&#8217;s getting mixed messages from Republicans, with Trump wanting a giant spending bill and Senate lawmakers demanding something much smaller.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump, for his part, has brushed aside complaints from Senate Republicans and said they will ultimately back a package if he tells them to.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;It&#8217;s very simple: I want to do it even bigger than the Democrats. Not every Republican agrees with me, but they will,&#8221; Trump said. &#8220;They&#8217;ll be on board if something comes.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I&#8217;d take all the votes you could get, whether it&#8217;s Democrat or Republican,&#8221; Trump said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But McConnell did not commit to a vote before the election. And he declined to say whether he&#8217;d spoken with Trump about the issue or whether Senate Republicans would support such legislation.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;We&#8217;d have to see what it was first,&#8221; McConnell said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Many Senate Republicans oppose a massive new spending bill and McConnell is not eager to hold a vote that would divide his conference just before the election, when most Senate Republicans want attention focused on the Barrett nomination.</p><p class="powa-wrapper"></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The scrambling comes amid multiple signs the economic recovery is straining. The unemployment rate remains high, the travel industry remains in rough shape, and there are growing concerns about problems in the commercial real estate sector. Many restaurants are still struggling, and some continue to go out of business seven months after the pandemic floored the American economy.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Staffers for Pelosi and Mnuchin continued to haggle over the contours of a deal as part of negotiations that have stretched on for months. It was highly uncertain if they would be able to reach a resolution.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Pelosi has cited progress in talks but also criticized the administration for partially rejecting Democrats&#8217; national testing proposal. Democrats have also demanded more funding for childcare and tax credits for families.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Appropriations Committee staffers in both chambers and parties held some talks Monday, but their negotiations appeared to stall out amid disagreements about what they could actually accomplish without knowing the specifics of anything Pelosi-Mnuchin had agreed to, according to several people involved who spoke on condition of anonymity to discuss the private talks. Pelosi acknowledged there were problems in speeding up the appropriations negotiations, but said in the Bloomberg interview that she hoped it could be resolved.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Republicans were set Tuesday to try to advance the first of two narrowly targeted bills that McConnell has said represent what his conference can support -- a rejection of the massive package taking shape between Pelosi and Mnuchin.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The legislation expected on the floor Tuesday would provide an additional $260 billion to the small business Paycheck Protection Program, and would allow businesses that already tapped loans earlier this year to get new funding. On Wednesday, McConnell will try to advance an approximately $500 billion bill that will include jobless benefits for the unemployed, funding for schools and the health care system, and new small business funding -- but will exclude many provisions sought by Democrats and Trump, including a new round of $1,200 stimulus checks.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Democrats have lambasted McConnell for trying to advance what they describe as &#8220;emaciated&#8221; bills that would provide political cover to Republicans without really solving any problems. The approximately $500 billion bill is nearly identical to a piece of legislation McConnell tried to advance last month, <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/us-policy/2020/09/10/senate-coronavirus-economic-relief-bill/?itid=lk_inline_manual_40" target="_blank">which Democrats opposed</a>.</p><p class="powa-wrapper"></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell&#8217;s remarks Tuesday indicate that even if Pelosi and Mnuchin do manage to reach a deal, any vote in the Senate would wait until after the election. If Democrats win a number of seats in the November elections, they could seize control of the Senate beginning in January.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">After casting votes on the two narrow relief bills Tuesday and Wednesday, Senate Republicans plan to move on to the Barrett nomination, before recessing through the election -- a timeline that does not leave room for wrangling over a big new spending bill.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Congress earlier this year approved roughly $3 trillion in aid to try and contain the economic fallout. Some of the funds appeared to help numerous sectors of the economy, but problems remain, particularly as certain programs expired.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A poll released Tuesday by The New York Times and Siena College <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/20/us/politics/biden-trump-times-poll.html" target="_blank">found overwhelming support for a $2 trillion stimulus package</a>, and many economists have urged policymakers to approve additional fiscal relief.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;The recovery has slowed and without more help it is at risk of backsliding. Neither the virus nor the economic damages it has wrought are gone, and policymakers would be making a serious mistake to act as if they were,&#8221; said Adam Ozimek, chief economist at Upwork.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Congress has not passed any relief legislation since April. House Democrats passed two far-reaching bills, but Senate Republicans rejected them. A significant minority of Senate Republicans believe enough money already has been spent and nothing more needs to be done.</p></div>