--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/cricket/2020/10/18/TELEMMGLPICT000242243195_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bq-pfgFGBz9L_4V5dRQnfCxXSCcE_6DFR4bo0Gkhevkug.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Meet Mark Saxby - the man who kept England sane in the bubble 
description: > 
  “Joe Denly was in charge of the card school, and when he left, Zak Crawley took over,” Saxby recalled.Mark Wood, Jimmy Anderson and Rory Burns ran a very good quiz night, and we got through the summer unscathed.On an England tour of the West Indies, Saxby met his second wife, in St Lucia.“He is a very popular member of our group and we made sure he received very good all-round support.A number of staff and players would check on him, and he had some training devices to help him to stay in shape,” Saxby said. 
date: 1603156961.137286 
--- 
<div><p>&#8220;Joe Denly was in charge of the card school, and when he left, Zak Crawley took over,&#8221; Saxby recalled. &#8220;Chris Woakes brought his coffee machine and serves an excellent coffee. Mark Wood, Jimmy Anderson and Rory Burns ran a very good quiz night, and we got through the summer unscathed. Those three words - Courage, Respect and Unity - mean a lot to us, and it bodes well for the future.&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p>Before talking about what made him so attuned to the England players, probably more than any non-cricketer has been, Saxby makes special mention of the 12th men. Jack Leach did not play a game after the initial warm-up between the Ben Stokes and Jos Buttler teams: not a single one of the six Tests, after being National Hero Number 2 the previous August. James Bracey, Gloucestershire&#8217;s keeper and opening batsman, was also present for every Test without playing; Ben Foakes for five Tests, and Wood much of the time.</p>
<p>&#8220;They were utterly selfless and gave so much to the group, as the best 12th men do. Music and humour played a big part,&#8221; Saxby said. The TV cameras often picked up Saxby talking to them on the bench. &#8220;But they were on a tight rota: they had to do their physical work, and their cricket skills, and rest, as well as be 12th man.&#8221; On the last damp afternoon of the Test series against Pakistan, Bracey took a neat catch at short-leg, as a small tangible reward, before everyone piled into cars and headed home to something nearer normality.</p>
<p>Saxby has rare sensibilities. He lends a sympathetic ear whether you are a player or coach or a journalist fed up with being six months away from home: &#8220;break it down and just look a short time ahead - like the next hour, think of three&#160;things you are grateful for and is there something to look forward to?&#8221; And this is the first time he has explained why.</p>
<p>As a legspinner he played club cricket in Nottinghamshire and for a works team along with his three brothers and father until, in January of 2005, his father died suddenly from complications of prostate cancer. Mark tried to revive him, unsuccessfully.</p>
<p>&#8220;I carried a lot of guilt for not being able to resuscitate my dad and divorce soon followed, my own well-being was low for a long time&#8230; and it was cricket and the people around me that occupied and carried me. That experience though has shaped me as a person and practitioner. I work with a brilliant team of players and staff. I am fortunate also in my role as massage therapist: working in a quiet and private space allows me to deeply listen to players and staff and establish a trusting and supportive relationship.&#160;</p>
<p>&#8220;Massage is still my first discipline but there seemed to be a niche there for player support as I had also completed a coaching skills course through the Institute of Leadership and Management.&#8221; Having worked for England through the Ashes of 2005, he has not only been there ever since but promoted last year to Player Support Coach by the team director Ashley Giles.</p>
<p>&#8220;Firstly, he (Mark) has a high level of emotional intelligence and empathy but probably most importantly he has developed a really strong level of trust with the players,&#8221; Giles said. &#8220;They are prepared to open up to him and share things they might not with others. Well-being and psychological support is an area we are definitely going to focus more on. We have to, given the workload and Covid.&#8221; But the current blend is good, of hard men and soft, like Paul Collingwood and Graham Thorpe, as tough as veterans come, and Saxby and the head coach Chris Silverwood, as kind and considerate as any former fast bowler could be.</p>
<p>On an England tour of the West Indies, Saxby met his second wife, in St Lucia. So he has an extra insight into the issues raised by the Black Lives Matter movement, which was another impact on the start of England&#8217;s season.</p>
<p>&#8220;Diversity has always been important to me and it suddenly took on a deeper meaning for the whole group and our sport. When we won the World Cup, we felt it resonating, accepting the synergy that diversity brings to a group.&#160; It clearly gave us a competitive advantage and it&#8217;s not only an example to counties and clubs to invest in the richness of diversity but to organisations up and down the country.&#160; We felt that by supporting BLM in our way and the British Asian Trust, it helped shine a light on social injustice and it was a natural extension of one of the cornerstones of our dressing room culture - that being, &#8216;to respect difference and the history that our cap represents.&#8217;&#160;</p>
<p>England&#8217;s Test team is by no means so diverse as the one-day side, limited at present to Jofra Archer. He was the only player to break the bio-bubble, by going home between Tests, and isolated for five days in his room at Old Trafford. &#8220;He is a very popular member of our group and we made sure he received very good all-round support. A number of staff and players would check on him, and he had some training devices to help him to stay in shape,&#8221; Saxby said.&#160;</p>
<p>&#8220;Events of the summer got us developing further our key off-field character traits such as gratitude, empathy and social awareness. As a result of that we as a group and our organisation are looking to become more deeply involved in promoting inclusion and diversity in our sport through projects to help the BAME community.&#8221;</p>
<p>Watch this space for the England cricket team&#8217;s next delivery.</p>
</div>