--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/20/19/Screen%20Shot%202020-10-20%20at%202.47.01%20PM.png 
title: > 
  Meghan Markle and Prince Harry say they are 'embracing every moment' with Archie in lockdown 
description: > 
  Meghan Markle and Prince Harry have revealed how they are coping amid the coronavirus pandemic while discussing their efforts to make the online world “healthier and better for all of us”.Before this year, I think everyone sort of throws that term around and everyone's satisfied with a 'Yeah, I'm good.'”According to Meghan, the couple has been making the most of the time in quarantine with their one-year-old son Archie.“This is an opportunity to spend more time as a family than we probably would otherwise,” Harry added.Harry also touched on the impacts of social media, and how the negativity has become a “global crisis.” 
keywords: > 
  lockdown, think, harry, prince, right, social, really, embracing, son, say, meghan, duchess, spoke, question, archie, moment, markle 
date: 1603350888.0542748 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p><a href="/topic/meghan-markle">Meghan Markle</a> and <a href="/topic/prince-harry">Prince Harry</a> have revealed how they are coping amid the <a href="/topic/coronavirus-pandemic">coronavirus pandemic</a> while discussing their efforts to make the online world &#8220;healthier and better for all of us&#8221;.</p><p>On Tuesday, the <a href="/topic/duke-and-duchess-sussex">Duke and Duchess of Sussex</a> hosted a special episode of <i><a href="/topic/time">Time</a>100 Talks</i>, where they interviewed a range of guests including Reddit co-founder Alexis Ohanian and the teenage hosts of the podcast <i>Teenager Therapy</i>.</p><p></p><p>At the beginning of the conversation, the couple spoke with <i>Time</i> editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal, who asked them &#8220;how they are doing,&#8221; prompting Prince Harry to discuss how the meaning of the question has changed.</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>"I think when people ask: 'How are you?' I sense, you know, it's a case of 'Really, how are you?' Before this year, I think everyone sort of throws that term around and everyone's satisfied with a 'Yeah, I'm good. I'm fine, thanks.' And then it's moving on to something else," Harry said. "But I think you're quite right. This year, more so than ever, it really is a question of 'No, no, no. Actually, how are you?'&#8221;</p><p></p><p></p><p>According to Meghan, the couple has been making the most of the time in quarantine with their one-year-old son <a href="/topic/archie">Archie</a>. </p><p>"All things considered, everyone is grappling with a different version of the same thing," she said. "For us, we're trying to embrace all of the quality time we get with our son right now and to not miss a single moment of his growth and development, which has been really special."</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>&#8220;This is an opportunity to spend more time as a family than we probably would otherwise,&#8221; Harry added.&#160;</p><p class="sc-oTaAA eBoKzo"></p><p>During their opening remarks, the duke and duchess also spoke about their continued dedication to combating <a href="/topic/social-media">social media</a> hate and bullying, with Meghan explaining that she and Harry have recruited people from all types of fields, including &#8220;professors and experts in the field, with defectors from some of the largest platforms, neurologists,&#8221; to &#8220;help us view it through a holistic approach.&#8221;</p><p>According to the duchess, they all have a &#8220;shared goal of wanting to make this space healthier and better for all of us."</p><p class="sc-oTaAA eBoKzo"></p><p>Harry also touched on the impacts of social media, and how the negativity has become a &#8220;global crisis.&#8221;</p><p></p><p>&#8220;What is happening in the online world is affecting the world. It is not restricted to certain platforms or certain social media conversations or groups. This is a global crisis - a global crisis of hate, a global crisis of misinformation, and a global health crisis,&#8221; he said. </p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>