--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f89e994d260780019341ea9?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Milk Bar founder Christina Tosi on her move from neighborhood bakery to big-box retailer shelves 
description: > 
  Milk Bar is moving into the grocery section at Target stores in the US, continuing its expansion into retail.Founder Christina Tosi is relying on milk carton-shaped packaging and shelf-stable versions of Milk Bar classics, like the Compost Cookie, to win over shoppers who may know nothing about the brand.The jump to Target marks the latest development for Milk Bar, which Tosi started with a single location in New York in 2008 after working for Momofuku founder David Chang, who remains a Milk Bar investor.Milk Bar is also making use of the digital world."I opened the first Milk Bar in November of 2008, in the middle of this crazy economic downturn," she said. 
keywords: > 
  milk, neighborhood, founder, shelves, stores, christina, bigbox, york, bar, shopping, target, cakes, retailer, tosi, including, bakery, grocery 
date: 1603223959.4192488 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Milk Bar is moving into the grocery section at Target stores in the US, continuing its expansion into retail.</li>
<li>Founder Christina Tosi is relying on milk carton-shaped packaging and shelf-stable versions of Milk Bar classics, like the Compost Cookie, to win over shoppers who may know nothing about the brand.</li>
<li>She's also planning changes to products and events that Milk Bar previously offered through its bakeries in cities like New York, Los Angeles and Toronto, including online baking classes.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-retail-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-retail-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>As a kid, Christina Tosi spent trips to the grocery store begging her mom for Little Debbie Zebra Cakes and smiley-face cookies, treats that stoked her interest in baking.</p><p>The Milk Bar founder says that she's now come full circle with her latest move: Adding a series of her baked goods to the grocery section of Target stores across the US.</p><p>The agreement, announced earlier this month, puts Milk Bar in roughly 1,900 stores and adds to its existing retail presence at Whole Foods, where it began selling in April 2020. The lineup at Target will include the bakery's cookies, including its Compost Cookie, as well as "truffle crumb cakes," a variation on its cake truffles, in flavors like birthday, which Tosi popularized.</p><p>The jump to Target marks the latest development for Milk Bar, which Tosi started with a single location in New York in 2008 after working for Momofuku founder David Chang, who remains a Milk Bar investor.</p><p>Though Sonoma's investment predates the spread of COVID-19, Tosi said that selling more cookies and truffle crumb cakes at retailers comes at a key time for Milk Bar: Many of its mainstay bakery locations remain closed to customers, and customers have shifted a greater portion of their food spending to grocery stores and away from eating out. Private equity firm Sonoma Brands said last fall that it had <a href="https://pitchbook.com/news/articles/milk-bar-banks-series-b-funding-for-cult-favorite-cookies">invested an undisclosed amount</a> in Milk Bar's Series B funding round to help expand into stores.</p><p>"People are also shopping right now in a way that they weren't shopping at the beginning of the year or they weren't shopping last year," she said.</p><p>The expansion will also put Milk Bar in front of a broader audience, including shoppers who may be completely unfamiliar with the chain. Tosi said her team put time into developing eye-catching packaging, including boxes that resemble milk cartons. Broadly, Tosi said, packaging has become more important for Milk Bar this year, thanks both to more sales at retailers as well as online sales opportunities.</p><p>"I thought a lot about if someone doesn't know us... and they reach out and they take the box, how is it going to make them feel, and how does that translate to what we do in our own stores? How does that translate to going online, to receiving a care package in the mail and really trying to meet people where they are, even if they don't know Milk Bar?"&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-retail-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-retail-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Grocers including Target and Walmart have added new products to their shelves, from niche upscale brands like Milk Bar to <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/why-walmart-is-adding-frozen-food-even-beyond-covid-19-2020-9">private-label frozen pizza</a> with a cauliflower crust, during the pandemic.&#160;</p><p>Tosi said she realizes that expanding in grocery stores comes with "a lot of opportunity." But she added that Milk Bar wants to see what works at Target and Whole Foods and avoid selling at "every grocery store that may be interested."</p><p>She's also making changes at other parts of the business to match the pandemic world, such as retrofitting her Milk Bar locations in cities like New York and Washington, DC. She recently reopened Milk Bar's flagship location north of Madison Square Park in Manhattan for pick-up and delivery orders of custom ice cream pints. "You can't come in and build a cookie or cake right now, but we're thinking about how that could existing the future," she said.</p><p>Milk Bar is also making use of the digital world. It sells cakes and other baked goods through its website and has promoted its corporate gift options for the upcoming holiday season. Tosi also hosts live streams through Instagram for her Bake Club every Monday at 2 pm ET. She also has plans to offer digital versions of baking classes in the coming months that would have otherwise taken place in a store.</p><p>"I opened the first Milk Bar in November of 2008, in the middle of this crazy economic downturn," she said. "Desserts are a really powerful thing, especially in uncertain and scary times. And that remains true."</p>
                  </div>