--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/films/2020/10/13/TELEMMGLPICT000241824158_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqMskb5bNbLRg23wIcdfCnnCJRvOqmiY13icl4B_7AC-o.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Misogynistic trash or feminist masterpiece? The dark, disturbing legacy of I Spit on Your Grave 
description: > 
  In September 1983, filmmaker Meir Zarchi came to Britain for an appearance on the Tyne Tees Television show Friday Live.He was there to debate critics of his notorious rape-revenge movie I Spit on Your Grave.The boy was supposedly triggered by watching "video nasties", including I Spit on Your Grave.“He became addicted to them and they gave him urges that were never there before.”Zarchi responded, undercutting the argument against video nasties: “I'm a father myself and I have two teenage children.Jennifer exacts violent revenge on her attackers one-by-one: death by hanging, axe, boat propeller, and – in true exploitation style – castration with a butcher’s knife. 
date: 1603090905.938942 
--- 
<div><p>In September 1983, filmmaker Meir Zarchi came to Britain for an appearance on the Tyne Tees Television show Friday Live. He was there to debate critics of his notorious rape-revenge movie I Spit on Your Grave. Zarchi came face-to-face with Joan Austin, whose 18-year-old son Martin had been found guilty of raping two women. The boy was supposedly triggered by watching "video nasties", including I Spit on Your Grave.&#160;</p>
<p>&#8220;I believe that videos like yours corrupted him and changed his behaviour,&#8221; said Austin to Zarchi. &#8220;He became addicted to them and they gave him urges that were never there before.&#8221;</p>
<p>Zarchi responded, undercutting the argument against video nasties: &#8220;I'm a father myself and I have two teenage children. They see all kinds of pictures. It doesn't mean they would go and do something wrong. I sympathise with you... But can you turn the blame away from your son and put it on my shoulders? Emotionally you're right to feel what you do. Rationally I can't make any judgment without knowing your son's character.&#8221;</p>
<p>At the time, Britain was in the grip of a moral panic over the so-called video nasties &#8211; exploitation <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/films/0/best-horror-movies-top-scary-films-watch-this-halloween-2019/">films</a> whose budgets were often as brutally low as their content was <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/films/0/horrifying-war-film-ever-made-painful-history-behind-painted/">brutally violent</a>. They slipped through the net, at first unregulated, with the emergence of home video. But soon enough, the films were outlawed or sliced up by censors.</p>
<p>I Spit on Your Grave &#8211; written, directed, and edited by Meir Zarchi in 1978 &#8211; tells the story of Jennifer (Camille Keaton), a writer from New York who rents a summer house in rural Connecticut and arouses the attention of four local hicks. The gang attack and repeatedly rape her across a 25-minute ordeal. Jennifer exacts violent revenge on her attackers one-by-one: death by hanging, axe, boat propeller, and &#8211; in true exploitation style &#8211; castration with a butcher&#8217;s knife. &#8220;I loved it,&#8221; Camille Keaton says about those scenes. &#8220;It was great to do the revenge part. I always tell people &#8211; watch the last half of the film.&#8221;</p>
</div>