--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://video-images.vice.com//articles/5f89b5310c6b82009d8913ff/lede/1602860371335-10142020mourningthanksgivingcvcropdouble.jpeg?image-resize-opts=Y3JvcD0xeHc6MC40ODN4aDsweHcsMHhoJnJlc2l6ZT0xMjAwOiomcmVzaXplPTEyMDA6Kg 
title: > 
  Mourning the Holiday I Don't Love 
description: > 
  As early as 10 a.m. on Thanksgiving, I’m usually irritated and bristling, adopting the attitude of needlessly-put-upon and also needs-to-be-the-most-helpful.Though I didn’t love this holiday at all, I am a little distraught it’s not going to happen this year.This year, looking back on acting badly on every Thanksgiving doesn’t fill me with regret.So I’m mourning something I didn’t even love.I’m mourning slacks. 
keywords: > 
  dont, miss, thanksgiving, thing, upcoming, doesnt, turkey, kitchen, love, wont, holiday, im, mourning 
date: 1603290372.712572 
--- 
<div><p>Thanksgiving, in general, is a funky rummage sale. It&#8217;s full of relationships that had previously been stored in the attic of your social life: they&#8217;re dusty at minimum, batshit at worst. Rarely is there hidden treasure that&#8217;s appreciated in value. Mostly it&#8217;s like: Oh, yeah, I remember this thing. Kinda cool. And then: you look around, you&#8217;re absolutely crowded by old junk, and you&#8217;d rather not. Thanksgiving brings the fogies out of the woodwork. Also: too many side dishes! No matter your taste regarding the menu, there are simply too many dishes to arrange, logistically, and for too many people. As a child of economists, I can report: the economics of scale get trashed. And what&#8217;s the relationship to formality here! What is the ideal Thanksgiving outfit? A nice, rust-colored sweater? Formal leggings, but definitely not sweatpants? A roomy turtleneck dress?</p><p>Last year, I was most famous not for the first turkey I ever cooked, but for my dramatic-yet-brief kitchen fit. When my dad taught me to cook the family turkey (two actually), he also taught me that only we&#8212;the high priests of turkey prep&#8212;were allowed entry into the kitchen. I thought I&#8217;d let the policy go slack, because I was a cool chef. People began to creep in for snacks, for drinks, for chats. And then, when I opened the oven, hip-bumped an in-law, and a greasy cheesecloth fell and five people rushed over to help, I turned over my shoulder and growled, &#8220;EVERYONE OUT!&#8221; Everyone scuttled away, quickly and slightly frightened.</p><p>But thinking about Thanksgiving this year, I feel all soft where I was spiky. Alone in the kitchen where we probably won&#8217;t be carefully coating two birds in butter and bacon in a month, I felt a flash of upcoming loneliness. I won&#8217;t be overwhelmed by nosy kin and noisy men; I won&#8217;t be disappointed with the fact that hot sauce doesn&#8217;t taste good with anything on the menu; and I won&#8217;t be acting out because of all this frustration. Considering the upcoming empty kitchen, I think in a bit of a wailing way: Who will witness my tantrums this year?</p><p>As early as 10 a.m. on Thanksgiving, I&#8217;m usually irritated and bristling, adopting the attitude of needlessly-put-upon and also needs-to-be-the-most-helpful. This is the day of the year when I am reliably the most prickly for non-political reasons. Tensions are often high. In the words of the great Thanksgiving film, 1999&#8217;s House of Yes with perfect Parker Posey, the best thing to do is &#8220;baste the turkey and hide the kitchen knives.&#8221; I have often compared my Thanksgiving personality to that of the noble turkey: mean, hissing, hungry, and too proud to change.</p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>It wasn&#8217;t really their fault. Thanksgiving does not set us up for success. Timing is weird; because of efforts not to ruin any appetites, everyone is cranky and hungry and three-drinks-into-tipsiness by like 3:30 p.m. There are too many people and not enough places to stand around. Everyone is trying to avoid someone, probably, and it&#8217;s just physics that everyone will be on the move, skulking off to different rooms. More often than not, this room is the kitchen, where there are too many cooks.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Though I didn&#8217;t love this holiday at all, I am a little distraught it&#8217;s not going to happen this year. I&#8217;m sure some abbreviated version will happen, but if the house isn&#8217;t filled with 46 of my close relatives and other sundry guests, a classic D.C. mix of foreign nationals, elderly neighbors and their expat children, and new girlfriends of my 987 nephews&#8212;well, it&#8217;s not really Thanksgiving.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>This year, looking back on acting badly on every Thanksgiving doesn&#8217;t fill me with regret. It fills me with small grief feelings. I was in good company, being moody and conflicted about holidays. I miss the people who will understand why I&#8217;m snarling while holding a 14-pound fowl and not think twice about it. So I&#8217;m mourning something I didn&#8217;t even love. I&#8217;m mourning slacks. I&#8217;m mourning so many people staying over that, last year, I had to sleep on a futon in my parents&#8217; room, because even all the couches were full of my nephews, even though it was literally my birthday.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>The individual parts of Thanksgiving are clunky, irritating, tasteless, drab. But the whole thing comes together into something with energy and tasty sparkle. Do I miss any of these singular elements? The sad rubble of Brussels sprouts? The vaguely Irish friend-of-a-family-friend who, every time he sees me, doesn&#8217;t remember he&#8217;s met me, and then recites a whole-ass Irish poem about someone else named Maggie who was in a field. No, I do not miss these things. But I do miss that it was a celebration with life force to spare. What else but a messy situation would prompt two nephews to pull the turkey up the hill from a neighbor&#8217;s oven in a sled the years when it snows?</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>I know enough about nostalgia to know that it&#8217;s full of the misleading angelic haze of bullshit&#8230; and to know that what I&#8217;m feeling is not nostalgia, but something more genuine. I will really miss it, because I will really miss the whole real, weird beast. Last week, I read a bit in a Vivian Gornick memoir, Approaching Eye Level, where she writes about looking past the little tasks of life&#8217;s events: &#8220;I had always known that life was not appetite and acquisition. In my earnest, angry, good-girl way I pursued &#8216;meaning.&#8217;&#8221; Between all the food and the preparation and the sorting out who was sleeping where, I happily took for granted the meaning of it, the big picture magic of it. And I&#8217;m sad-happy to wait for the next time I can be a little lashing minor brute for a second and then snuggle on the couch next to my sister and refill our wine.</p>
</span></div>