--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/G7LGYNQNUAI6XNAERUPGOXWHAE.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  My kids’ Roblox obsession drove me crazy – until I joined them 
description: > 
  Playing online provides an escape that our quarantine-weary brains need.Kids get to leadParenting in a pandemic means I’m constantly delivering instructions to my kids: “Wear your mask.Social distance.” But in the world of “Adopt Me!”, my kids are the ones telling me what to do.You should accept.”The rules-defined nature of online games like “Adopt Me!” can be liberating for kids, Goldman said.“Your parents play ‘Adopt Me!’?” asked one, in what sounded like a wistful tone. 
date: 1603079340.715276 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">My children&#8217;s fixation with &#8220;Adopt Me!&#8221; &#8212; in which players collect, care for and trade pets ranging from a &#8220;common&#8221; otter to a coveted &#8220;legendary&#8221; turtle &#8212; both annoyed and mystified me. When my kids weren&#8217;t playing, they were rehashing their latest trades or plotting their next moves. Their conversations were baffling.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Once I age up my last frog I&#8217;ll make a neon. What can I trade for two emus? Did you see that person scamming for free pets?&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Then late in the summer, my kids tried a new strategy: They started pestering my husband and me to play with them.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;No, thanks,&#8221; I said over and over, despite their pleading. Even before the pandemic, I worried about <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/2020/03/25/parents-screen-time-coronavirus?itid=lk_inline_manual_10">how much time we all spent with our screens</a>. But my husband was more open-minded and created an account. Some evenings, I&#8217;d glance across the kitchen to see the rest of my family sprawled on the couch, tapping away at their devices.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Dad, teleport to me! Come see what this person&#8217;s trading!&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Though I felt a little left out, I tried to ignore their banter. If I was going to be on a screen, I told myself, I needed to be doing something productive or otherwise adult, like scrolling Twitter or the news. I had zero interest in a game played mostly by adolescents. But my 9-year-old refused to give up on me, and I agreed to try &#8220;Adopt Me!&#8221; just once &#8212; on the condition that she would stop badgering me about it.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Being a &#8220;noob&#8221; &#8212; gaming lingo meaning an inexperienced player &#8212; was frustrating at first. My avatar looked blocky and silly, and I couldn&#8217;t figure out how to navigate anywhere. I watched my children&#8217;s fingers fly across their screens as they deftly traversed the game&#8217;s colorful spaces.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">I felt awkward, but I wasn&#8217;t alone. In Roblox&#8217;s May <a href="https://corp.roblox.com/2020/06/62-teens-roblox-say-online-conversations-real-life-friends-top-pandemic-priority">survey</a> of teenagers, 30 percent of respondents indicated their parents were &#8220;showing more interest in their online lives, including learning about and playing Roblox with them.&#8221; Despite my concerns about screen time, the more my kids and I played together, the more I saw that online gaming was affecting our family in positive ways.</p><p><h3 class="font--subhead gray-darkest ma-0 pb-sm pt-lgmod">Screen time, together</h3></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Jordan Shapiro, a professor at Temple University and the author of &#8220;<a href="https://www.jordanshapiro.org/">The New Childhood: Raising Kids to Thrive in a Connected World</a>,&#8221; was careful to limit his kids&#8217; screen time when they were very young. &#8220;I wouldn&#8217;t even let them have toys with electronic sounds,&#8221; he said. But after going through a divorce, Shapiro started playing video games with his sons to spend more time together &#8212; and he realized that the conventional framing of screen time as a &#8220;terrible evil&#8221; didn&#8217;t make any sense.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;We do want to train our kids to be as imaginative, playful and creative with digital tools as they possibly can be, because they&#8217;re going to work with digital tools and they&#8217;re going to live their life through digital tools,&#8221; Shapiro said. And the best way to support our children in learning about the digital world is to join them.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;When you participate in it, what you&#8217;re showing them is that their process is valuable and meaningful and that they should continue on it, and that what they&#8217;re discovering matters,&#8221; Shapiro said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Though I insisted I would try the game only once, my kids and I now play regularly. Curling up on the couch and exploring the carefree world of &#8220;Adopt Me!&#8221; together has become our family&#8217;s favorite way to unwind after a long week. Playing online provides an escape that our quarantine-weary brains need. &#8220;When you&#8217;re always in the same location, you need to sort of fake the location shifts,&#8221; Shapiro said, like moving from the dinner table to a virtual game.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">When the virus prompted new physical distancing requirements, Monet Goldman, a registered associate marriage and family therapist and clinician in the School Linked Services Program at <a href="https://upliftfs.org/">Uplift Family Services</a>, began using Roblox as an alternative to in-person family play therapy. Playing together strengthens parent-child relationships, said Goldman, by building up &#8220;positive interactions&#8221; to outnumber the inevitable meltdowns. He has seen encouraging results and is teaching other therapists how to incorporate online gaming into their practices.</p><p><h3 class="font--subhead gray-darkest ma-0 pb-sm pt-lgmod">Kids get to lead</h3></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Parenting in a pandemic means I&#8217;m constantly delivering instructions to my kids: &#8220;<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/lifestyle/on-parenting/how-to-help-children-adjust-to-masks-according-to-experts-and-parents/2020/08/05/c431c45c-cb7c-11ea-bc6a-6841b28d9093_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_27" target="_blank">Wear your mask</a>. Don&#8217;t touch your face. Social distance.&#8221; But in the world of &#8220;Adopt Me!&#8221;, my kids are the ones telling <i>me </i>what to do. They&#8217;ve become my teachers, coaches and mentors.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">And I need their help. Trading pets with other avatars is a key feature of the game, but it happens with a swiftness that makes me mildly hyperventilate. Recently, when another avatar initiated a trade with me, I called out to my 11-year-old. &#8220;What should I do here?&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">She took control of my screen, evaluated the other player&#8217;s offer and effortlessly toggled between the chat bar and my pet inventory. Seconds later, she declared, &#8220;This is a good trade. You should accept.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The rules-defined nature of online games like &#8220;Adopt Me!&#8221; can be liberating for kids, Goldman said. He noticed that children who were more shy or had processing differences would sometimes get overwhelmed and shut down during traditional, in-person therapy. Those same kids began to thrive when the sessions shifted online. &#8220;We&#8217;ve seen them shine the brightest in our video game groups&#8221; because they have a lot more safety, control and autonomy, he said. &#8220;Once you have that freedom as a kid, it changes the dynamics, at which point I was the one being led.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">If Goldman&#8217;s avatar got stuck in one of the game&#8217;s obstacle courses &#8212; also called &#8220;obbies&#8221; &#8212; during a play therapy session, the kids jumped in with encouragement: &#8220;It&#8217;s okay, Mr. Monet. Just relax. You&#8217;ll be able to get through it.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Playing Roblox enabled my 9-year-old to discover her aptitude for &#8220;glitch building,&#8221; and now she&#8217;s teaching me, too. I&#8217;ll often see her avatar leaping through the game&#8217;s walls to hidden spaces where she designs secret balconies, pizza bars and plush pet rooms.</p><p><h3 class="font--subhead gray-darkest ma-0 pb-sm pt-lgmod">A shared language</h3></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Understanding the gaming lingo my kids frequently utter has helped me communicate with and relate to them better. When my daughters debate the trading value of a ridable neon frog, I get the context and can join the discussion. If they&#8217;re upset or elated about something that happened within the game, I can respond in a way that doesn&#8217;t ring hollow.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">As the pandemic wears on, sometimes my patience with my kids &#8212; and theirs with me &#8212; disintegrates. But no matter what transpired on a given day, I know that the moment we sit down and dive into the cozy world of &#8220;Adopt Me!&#8221;, my kids and I will be speaking the same language. I want to keep nurturing that open communication, especially as they approach the teenage years.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">One evening as our daughters played online with friends, my husband and I joined their server. Their peers were awestruck. &#8220;Your parents play &#8216;Adopt Me!&#8217;?&#8221; asked one, in what sounded like a wistful tone.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">I nudged my husband. &#8220;Does that mean we&#8217;re cool?&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Alas, my kids are quick to tell me that this will never be the case. My 9-year-old puts it best when she says sweetly, &#8220;Mom, no matter how much you play Roblox, you&#8217;ll always be a noob.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">As long as we get to keep playing together, I&#8217;m okay with that.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><i>Gina Rich is a mother and writer in Wisconsin. She blogs at </i><a href="http://lovehopeandcoffee.com/"><i>Love, Hope &amp; Coffee</i></a><i>.</i></p></div>