--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8f26e29e9fe4001900a663?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Netflix co-CEO Reed Hastings compares the company's new dual leadership model to a family with 2 parents: 'It can be incredibly powerful' 
description: > 
  Netflix co-CEO Reed Hastings defended the streaming company's dual-leadership model in a wide-ranging interview at Business Insider's Global Trends festival on Tuesday.Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories.But Hastings, in a wide-ranging interview at Business Insider's Global Trends festival on Tuesday, said critics should look to the family, instead of the corporation, before knocking the approach."Nearly every family has two CEOs in two parents," Hastings said in an interview with Nich Carlson, the global editor-in-chief of Insider, Business Insider's parent company."We can really share all this great content from around the world, which is what makes viewing on Netflix so rich. 
keywords: > 
  reed, netflix, services, model, leadership, hastings, dual, streaming, business, really, global, parents, world, insiders, share, family, powerful, incredibly 
date: 1603221865.6256115 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Netflix co-CEO Reed Hastings defended the streaming company's dual-leadership model in a wide-ranging interview at Business Insider's <a href="https://trendsfestival.com/en/schedule.html">Global Trends festival</a> on Tuesday.</li>
<li>"Nearly every family has two CEOs," Hastings said. "If&#160;you've got two people that work really well together then it can be incredibly powerful."</li>
<li>Hastings also touched on the battle for wallet share in streaming, the longterm impact of the pandemic, and what excites him most about Netflix's future.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-media-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-media-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Netflix, known for its <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/netflix-culture-deck-top-most-impactful-slides-2019-10">unconventional corporate culture</a>, made a bold move in July when it promoted longtime content chief Ted Sarandos to co-CEO alongside existing boss Reed Hastings. The decision was <a href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/co-ceos-are-out-of-style-why-is-netflix-resurrecting-the-management-model-11594987416">criticized by some in the business community</a> who said putting two chiefs in charge rarely worked.</p><p>But Hastings, in a wide-ranging interview at Business Insider's <a href="https://trendsfestival.com/en/schedule.html">Global Trends festival</a> on Tuesday, said critics should look to the family, instead of the corporation, before knocking the approach.</p><p>"Nearly every family has two CEOs in two parents," Hastings said in an interview with Nich Carlson, the global editor-in-chief of Insider, Business Insider's parent company. "I wouldn't say it's a generally good technique, but I would say if you've got two people that work really well together then it can be incredibly powerful."</p><p>Hastings, who plans to remain at Netflix for at least 10 more years, said Sarandos and he "finish each other's sentences" after more than two decades working together. The two essentially served as co-CEOs before the title changes made it official, he said.</p><p>Hastings and Sarandos are leading Netflix at a time when media and tech companies including Disney, WarnerMedia, NBCUniversal, and Apple are redoubling their efforts around streaming. Each now sells subscriptions to their own video services. Consumers may have to make hard choices as the cost of these subscriptions start to pile up.</p><p>Hastings said his job is to make sure that, if that happens, Netflix is the last service people choose to cancel.</p><p>"If people are tight on money, we would rather them drop one of the others services like HBO's and keep ours, but many people will subscribe to both of them," Hastings said. "Our job is to please our members so much that they don't turn to those other services; that when they have an hour, they sit down and turn on Netflix first. We call that 'winning moments of truth.'"</p><p>While 2020 has been disastrous for some media companies, Netflix has flourished as people spend more time streaming video while at home during the pandemic. It's unclear whether those viewing patterns will last when life returns to some semblance of normalcy.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-media-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-media-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Hastings said it will take years before we truly understand what the lasting impacts of the pandemic.</p><p>"We'll have to wait five or 10 years to get perspective on it, to really understand it in hindsight," Hastings said. "What we're doing day-to-day is recognizing people are pinned down and we have to produce the best entertainment we can to help people get through this very unusual time."</p><p>One side effect of the pandemic is that people are spending more hours per day using smartphones and other internet-connected screens, likely including watching more Netflix originals.</p><p>When asked about the consequences of increased screen time, Hastings likened it to the rise of recorded music, which boosted listening but also led musicians to perform live less often, or the rise of the automobile, which made it easier to travel but also caused deaths from accidents.&#160;</p><p>"All tech innovation involves societal costs," Hastings said. "You just want to keep growing the benefits and minimizing the negatives."</p><p>Looking ahead to his next 10 years at Netflix, Hastings said he's most passionate about telling more global stories, like with shows such as "Dark" out of Germany, "Money Heist" from Spain, or "The Naked Director" from Japan. It's a key component of Netflix's business strategy, too. Netflix's fastest-growing regions are outside of the US, driven by audiences in Europe, Asia, Latin America, and elsewhere.</p><p>"I think I'm just excited by gluing the world together," Hastings said. "We can really share all this great content from around the world, which is what makes viewing on Netflix so rich. I'm just fascinated by different cultures &#8212; those can be national cultures or within one nation, all the different subcultures in that world &#8212; and giving them all a voice and being able to share stories."</p>
                  </div>