--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/17/17/Whitmer.jpeg 
title: > 
  Newly released videos show Michigan militia training for Gretchen Whitmer kidnap plot 
description: > 
  Training exercises by the militia that plotted to capture the governor of Michigan have been released in shocking new videos.Two other videos show men training in the quick reloading of assault rifles, and another shows one man working a Taser weapon.The video formed part of the evidence submitted by federal prosecutors during a two day court hearing in the state.Barry Croft, 44, of Delaware, who is also named is still waiting to make his first appearance in a Michigan federal court.Lawyers for the defendants told the hearing that their clients were being prosecuted for their interest in firearms and anti-government opinions. 
date: 1603116309.2803507 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p>Training exercises by the <a href="/topic/militia">militia</a> that plotted to capture the <a href="/topic/governor">governor</a> of <a href="/topic/michigan">Michigan</a> have been released in shocking new videos.&#160;</p><p>In one clip a group of men dressed in military gear get out of a car and fire rounds from assault rifles into the distance. Two other videos show men training in the quick reloading of assault rifles, and another shows one man working a Taser weapon.</p><p></p><p>Authorities say the group had run surveillance on the governor&#8217;s northern Michigan holiday home and inspected a nearby bridge as a location for a bomb.</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>In another video put into evidence by prosecutors, suspect Brandon Caserta talked into a camera about taking action against &#8220;government thugs that rob people everyday.&#8221;</p><p></p><p>&#8220;If this whole things starts to happen, I&#8217;m telling you what dude, I&#8217;m taking out as many of those m****r f*****s as I can. Every single one. Every single one,&#8221; he says.</p><p></p><p>The video formed part of the evidence submitted by federal prosecutors during a two day court hearing in the state.</p><p>After the hearing US district magistrate Judge Sally Berens ordered the cases of five men facing federal charges be presented to a grand jury.</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>Adam Fox, 37, of Grand Rapids, Ty Garbin, 24, of Hartland Township, Kaleb Franks, 26, of Waterford, Daniel Harris, 23, of Lake Orion and Brandon Caserta, 33, of Canton, were all named in the criminal complaint.</p><p>Barry Croft, 44, of Delaware, who is also named is still waiting to make his first appearance in a Michigan federal court.</p><p>All six men are being held without bail.</p><p>Lawyers for the defendants told the hearing that their clients were being prosecuted for their interest in firearms and anti-government opinions.</p><p>Attorney Mark Satawa, representing Garbin, told the hearing that his client&#8217;s right to free speech and assembly, as well as his right to bear firearms had been violated in the probe.</p><p></p><p>Eight others men face state charges: Paul Bellar, 21, of Milford; Shawn Fix, 38, of Belleville; Eric Molitor, 36, of Cadillac; Michael Null, 38, of Plainwell; William Null, 38, of Shelbyville; Pete Musico, 42, and Joseph Morrison, 26, of Munith; and Brian Higgins, 51, of Wisconsin Dells, Wisconsin.</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>