--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://cdn.onefc.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/TheApprentice-articlehero.jpg 
title: > 
  ONE Championship Announces New Third Quarter 2020 Brand Partnerships 
description: > 
  20 October 2020 – Singapore: The largest global sports media property in Asian history, ONE Championship™ (ONE), today announced new Q3 2020 strategic partnerships.ONE Championship will work together with these brands on a variety of marketing and branded content initiatives in “The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition,” scheduled to air in early 2021.That’s why we think this partnership with ‘The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition’ is a great idea.ONE Championship superstars are also confirmed to make appearances, including ONE Heavyweight World Champion Brandon “The Truth” Vera, ONE Women’s Atomweight World Champion “Unstoppable” Angela Lee, ONE Flyweight Grand Prix World Champion Demetrious “Mighty Mouse” Johnson, Indian wrestling champion Ritu “The Indian Tigress” Phogat, Karate World Champion “Super” Sage Northcutt, and ONE Women’s Strawweight World Champion “The Panda” Xiong Jing Nan.The first season of “The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition” will consist of a total of 13 episodes. 
keywords: > 
  edition, announces, 2020, brand, champion, quarter, zoom, singapore, championship, ceo, partnerships, stated, world, apprentice, yuan 
date: 1603258595.6004546 
--- 
<div><p align="justify"><strong>20 October 2020 &#8211; Singapore:</strong>&#160;The largest global sports media property in Asian history, ONE Championship&#8482; (ONE), today announced new Q3 2020 strategic partnerships. Brands include&#160;<strong>Zoom</strong>,&#160;<strong>Andaz Singapore</strong>,&#160;<strong>Jakarta International Expo and League Sportswear</strong>,&#160;<strong>QuadX,</strong>&#160;and&#160;<strong>Twilio</strong>. ONE Championship will work together with these brands on a variety of marketing and branded content initiatives in &#8220;<strong>The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition</strong>,&#8221; scheduled to air in early 2021.</p>
<p align="justify">The show features appearances from CEOs of the world&#8217;s largest companies, with the latest addition being Zoom Founder and CEO&#160;<strong>Eric Yuan</strong>. Zoom conferencing technology will be integrated across the show.</p>
<p align="justify"><strong>Hari Vijayarajan, Group CCO of ONE Championship, stated:</strong> &#8220;I am pleased to announce ONE Championship&#8217;s third-quarter 2020 strategic partnerships and the addition of Zoom and their CEO Eric Yuan as a guest on the show. I would like to thank all the brands for their trust in the world&#8217;s largest martial arts organization and &#8216;The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition.&#8217; ONE Championship continues to strive to deliver the most authentic and exciting martial arts experiences and content stacks to our fans around the world.&#8221;</p>
<p align="justify"><strong>Amy Lu, Director of Operations at Andaz Singapore, stated:</strong> &#8220;Andaz Singapore exists to show off fresh perspectives &#8211; on how hospitality can be done differently with ingenuity and perseverance. Along with the Founder, Chairman, and CEO of ONE Championship, Chatri Sityodtong, we are strong advocates for the Asian culture of resilience, determination, and imagination. In a world where there seems to be injustice all around, a stage like &#8216;The Apprentice&#8217; helps to level the playing field and shines a light to brilliant business minds the world over &#8211; regardless of their background. We are proud to be a partner in this exciting new project and we look forward to welcoming the batch of aspiring entrepreneurs that will fight it out for the ultimate title.&#8221;</p>
<p align="justify"><strong>Prajna Murdaya, Director of Jakarta International Expo and Managing Director of League Sportswear, stated:</strong> &#8220;Jakarta International Theater and League Sportswear are delighted to partner in &#8216;The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition.&#8217; We believe the ONE Championship platform that Chatri is building is doing nothing short of elevating humanity. My brother Karuna and I share his values and mission in building real-life superheroes. We feel honored to share our experiences with the contestants and viewers, help them realize the power of purpose, and through it, become the best versions of themselves.&#8221;</p>
<p align="justify"><strong>Dino Araneta, Founder, and CEO of QuadX, stated:</strong> &#8220;At QuadX, we&#8217;re equally passionate about FUN and DOING A GREAT JOB. That&#8217;s why we think this partnership with &#8216;The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition&#8217; is a great idea. These are days when, in spite of all the challenges, there are opportunities everywhere to those who dream and set out to make it happen. That&#8217;s why I believe that being jobless doesn&#8217;t necessarily mean you can&#8217;t earn. And that&#8217;s the kind of Futureprenuer we&#8217;re trying to help build.&#8221;</p>
<p align="justify">&#8220;The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition&#8221; invites 16 contestants handpicked from around the world to compete in a high-stakes game of business and physical challenges. The winner will receive a US$250,000 job offer to work directly under Chairman and CEO Chatri Sityodtong for a year as his protege in Singapore.</p>
<p align="justify">In addition to Eric Yuan, CEOs already confirmed to join &#8220;The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition&#8221; include Grab CEO <strong>Anthony Tan</strong>, Zilingo CEO&#160;<strong>Ankiti Bose</strong>, Catcha Group and iFlix CEO&#160;<strong>Patrick Grove</strong>, and Everise CEO&#160;<strong>Sudhir Agarwal</strong>. More CEOs will be announced at a later date.</p>
<p align="justify">ONE Championship superstars are also confirmed to make appearances, including ONE Heavyweight World Champion&#160;<strong>Brandon &#8220;The Truth&#8221; Vera</strong>, ONE Women&#8217;s Atomweight World Champion&#160;<strong>&#8220;Unstoppable&#8221; Angela Lee</strong>, ONE Flyweight Grand Prix World Champion&#160;<strong>Demetrious &#8220;Mighty Mouse&#8221; Johnson</strong>, Indian wrestling champion&#160;<strong>Ritu &#8220;The Indian Tigress&#8221; Phogat</strong>, Karate World Champion&#160;<strong>&#8220;Super&#8221; Sage Northcutt</strong>, and ONE Women&#8217;s Strawweight World Champion&#160;<strong>&#8220;The Panda&#8221; Xiong Jing Nan</strong>. More World Champions joining the show will be announced at a later date.</p>
<p align="justify">&#8220;The Apprentice&#8221; is one of the world&#8217;s biggest non-scripted reality TV programs in history that judges the business skills of a group of contestants competing for a job offer with a high-profile CEO. It has aired in over 120 countries. The first season of &#8220;The Apprentice: ONE Championship Edition&#8221; will consist of a total of 13 episodes.</p>
<p class="ad-container closing-paragraph"></p>
</div>