--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/19/opinion/19Conversation/19Conversation-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Opinion | Has Trump Drawn the Water for a ‘Republican Blood Bath’? 
description: > 
  If Senate Republicans had integrity — ha!We don’t live in a Mr. Smith world.We live in a world where the filibuster means Ted Cruz trying to stop health care legislation.Gail: This can be a future topic without Donald Trump pushing us both to the same side.Everybody in Puerto Rico isn’t enthusiastic about a deal that would require the whole island to pay federal income tax. 
date: 1603102718.5831861 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">All this assumes Democrats win back the Senate and the White House. If they do, is any of that warranted or wise?</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0"><strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10">Gail: </strong>None of those would be on the top of my priority list, but I can understand why they&#8217;re coming up. The way the Republicans have handled court appointments is shocking, including their decision to break all the precedents they set during the Obama administration and ram Barrett through just days before the election.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0"><strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10">Bret: </strong>Well, I wouldn&#8217;t object to any president&#8217;s right to nominate a justice at any point in his presidency if Mitch McConnell hadn&#8217;t held up Merrick Garland&#8217;s nomination to replace Antonin Scalia transparently bogus grounds. But the hypocrisy rankles and reeks. If Senate Republicans had integrity &#8212; ha! &#8212; they would have held themselves to their own standard and held the nomination until after January.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0"><strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10">Gail: </strong>The filibuster tradition &#8212; one Senator stopping a bill from coming up to vote by just refusing to stop speaking &#8212; calls up a lovely vision of Jimmy Stewart in &#8220;Mr. Smith Goes To Washington&#8221; talking for 23 hours in order to fight corruption and get children a summer camp. Classic movie, which was made in 1939. About 10 people under the age of 60 have seen it. We don&#8217;t live in a Mr. Smith world. We live in a world where the filibuster means Ted Cruz trying to stop health care legislation.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0"><strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10">Bret: </strong>It would be a mistake to abolish the filibuster outright. I know lots of Democrats who privately regret Harry Reid&#8217;s decision, back when he was the Democratic majority leader in 2013, to end the filibuster for federal judgeships and executive branch appointments. That set up Republicans to end it for Supreme Court nominees a few years later. We&#8217;ve just wound up in a race to the bottom.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0"><strong class="css-8qgvsz ebyp5n10">Gail:</strong> This can be a future topic without Donald Trump pushing us both to the same side.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">As for Puerto Rico and the District of Columbia, it does seem to me we should let the people who live there decide. Everybody in Puerto Rico isn&#8217;t enthusiastic about a deal that would require the whole island to pay federal income tax.</p></div>