--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/21/opinion/21adichie-01/21adichie-01-facebookJumbo-v2.jpg 
title: > 
  Opinion | Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie: Nigeria Is Murdering Its Citizens 
description: > 
  LAGOS, Nigeria — For years, the name SARS hung in the air here in Nigeria like a putrid fog.In 2012 Mr. Iloanya was 20 when SARS officers arrested him at a child dedication ceremony in Anambra State.Photos of him on social media show a young man, still almost a child, with sensitive eyes and a future waiting for him.There have been End SARS protests, since 2016, but October 2020 was different, a tipping point had been reached.They were organized mostly on social media by young Nigerians, born in the 1980s and 1990s, a disaffected generation with the courage to act. 
keywords: > 
  money, nigeria, media, large, murdering, chimamanda, protests, social, ngozi, peaceful, officers, opinion, sars, adichie, citizens, young 
date: 1603331730.757585 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">LAGOS, Nigeria &#8212;&#160;For years, the name SARS hung in the air here in Nigeria like a putrid fog. SARS, which stood for Special Anti-Robbery Squad, was supposed to be the elite Nigerian police unit dedicated to fighting crime, but it was really a moneymaking terror squad with no accountability. SARS was random, vicious, vilely extortionist. SARS officers would raid bars or stop buses on the road and arbitrarily arrest young men for such crimes as wearing their hair in dreadlocks, having tattoos, holding a nice phone or a laptop, driving a nice car. Then they would demand large amounts of money as &#8220;bail.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">SARS officers once arrested my cousin at a beer parlor because he arrived driving a Mercedes. They accused him of being an armed robber, ignored the work ID cards he showed them, took him to a station where they threatened to photograph him next to a gun and claim he was a robber, unless he paid them a large sum of money. My cousin is one of the fortunate few who could pay an amount large enough for SARS, and who was released. He is not one of the many tortured, or the many disappeared, like Chijioke Iloanya.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">In 2012 Mr. Iloanya was 20 when SARS officers arrested him at a child dedication ceremony in Anambra State. He had committed no crime. His family tried to pay to have him released but were asked to bring more money than they had. So they sold their property to raise money and went back to the SARS office but Mr. Iloanya was no longer there. They have not seen him since. Photos of him on social media show a young man, still almost a child, with sensitive eyes and a future waiting for him. There are so many families like the Iloanyas who are caught between pain and hope, because their sons and brothers were arrested by SARS and they fear the worst, knowing the reputation of SARS, but still they dare to hope in the desperate way we humans do for those we love.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">There have been End SARS protests, since 2016, but October 2020 was different, a tipping point had been reached. The protests signaled the overturning of convention &#8212; the protesters insisted on not having a central leadership, it was social rather than traditional media that documented the protests, and, in a country with firm class divisions, the protests cut across class. The protests were peaceful, insistently peaceful, consistently peaceful. They were organized mostly on social media by young Nigerians, born in the 1980s and 1990s, a disaffected generation with the courage to act. Their bravery is inspiring. They speak to hope and to the possibility of what Nigeria could become. Of those involved in the organization, none is more remarkable than a group called <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://feministcoalition2020.com/" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Feminist Coalition</a>, set up by Nigerian feminists, who have raised more than $180,000, and have provided legal aid, security and food to protesters.</p></div>