--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/24/opinion/24weiner/24weiner-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Opinion | What I Learned When QAnon Came for Me 
description: > 
  What happened to me was a perfect QAnon storm: I’m a progressive, gay, Jewish Democrat working to end discrimination against L.G.B.T.Q.young people on California’s sex offender registry.California law treated “gay” sex — oral and anal — much more harshly than it treated vaginal sex, allowing straight young people to stay off the registry while forcing L.G.B.T.Q.This discriminatory distinction existed because when California created its sex offender registry in 1947, gay sex was illegal and anti-sodomy laws were still on the books.Even though these anti-sodomy laws were overturned in the 1970s, part of the sex offender registry law was never updated and was still destroying the lives of L.G.B.T.Q. 
date: 1603156912.2482257 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Before I became the center of a <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/19/us/politics/qanon-trump-republicans.html" title="">QAnon</a> conspiracy theory, I followed the news about this internet cult with alarm, but also from afar. I saw it as a scary thing happening to people I didn&#8217;t know. Then QAnon followers sent me over a thousand death threats.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">What happened to me was a perfect QAnon storm: I&#8217;m a progressive, gay, Jewish Democrat working to end discrimination against L.G.B.T.Q. people. I&#8217;m just the right target for an internet cult obsessed with pinning pedophilia and child trafficking on progressives, gays, Jews and Democrats. As tens of thousands of slanderous and hate-filled comments about me proliferated on Facebook and Twitter, the companies did little to stop them.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">How did I become a QAnon target? Last year, I introduced Senate Bill 145 in the California State Senate to end discrimination against L.G.B.T.Q. young people on California&#8217;s sex offender registry. California law treated &#8220;gay&#8221; sex &#8212; oral and anal &#8212; much more harshly than it treated vaginal sex, allowing straight young people to stay off the registry while forcing L.G.B.T.Q. young people onto it. This discriminatory distinction existed because when California created its sex offender registry in 1947, gay sex was illegal and anti-sodomy laws were still on the books. Even though these anti-sodomy laws were overturned in the 1970s, part of the sex offender registry law was never updated and was still destroying the lives of L.G.B.T.Q. young people.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">If a 17-year-old and 19-year-old of the same gender had consensual oral or anal sex and the younger party&#8217;s parents made the decision to press charges for homophobic reasons, a judge would have no choice but to put the older teenager on the sex offender registry. But if a straight couple had vaginal intercourse, the judge would have discretion regarding whether or not the 19-year-old belonged on the registry.</p></div>