--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/20/opinion/20douthatNew/20douthatNew-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Opinion | Trump Is Giving Up 
description: > 
  Meanwhile, just because tests reveal more mild cases doesn’t mean the virus has stopped killing people.Over and over again, case numbers spike and deaths lag and contrarians talk about how the virus is just a “casedemic” — and then a few weeks go by, and deaths follow cases up.Strictly as a policymaking matter, this is Trump’s worst behavior since his springtime push for the fastest-possible reopening.From these follies the God of surprises might yet deliver him.But every decision of his own lately has been a choice for political defeat. 
date: 1603190827.7991066 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">But the strong version keeps being wrong. First, the past two months have made it clear that herd immunity is a moving target: You can achieve it provisionally under social-distancing conditions, but once people relax and start socializing again, the threshold changes, and suddenly you get a renewed spike. This is what happened across Europe, which crushed its case rates in the late spring, returned to more normal life in the summer &#8212; and then reaped an early-fall wave that&#8217;s now fully out of control, including in countries like Belgium that were hit intensely in the first go-round.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Meanwhile, just because tests reveal more mild cases doesn&#8217;t mean the virus has stopped killing people. Over and over again, case numbers spike and deaths lag and contrarians talk about how the virus is just a &#8220;casedemic&#8221; &#8212; and then a few weeks go by, and deaths follow cases up. It happened in the United States over the summer, it&#8217;s happened in Europe in the past month, and now it&#8217;s probably about to happen here again: Our cases have been rising since early September, our hospitalizations have been rising for several weeks, and while deaths are flat for now (at &#8220;only&#8221; 711 Americans a day), it&#8217;s likely they&#8217;ll be rising again by the time we hit November.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Which means that Trump has chosen to go to war with the idea of testing, with <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.npr.org/2020/10/19/925435610/trump-rails-against-fauci-and-these-idiots-in-campaign-call" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Dr. Anthony Fauci</a> and with &#8220;experts&#8221; in general at precisely the moment when the fall wave they&#8217;ve been warning about seems to be showing up &#8212; which is also the moment when the <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://projects.fivethirtyeight.com/coronavirus-polls/" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">two-thirds of Americans</a> who describe themselves as &#8220;very&#8221; or &#8220;somewhat&#8221; concerned about the virus will be going to the polls.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Strictly as a policymaking matter, this is Trump&#8217;s worst behavior since his springtime push for the fastest-possible reopening. Europe&#8217;s renewed crisis shows that the Western failure to contain the virus is much <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/12/opinion/sunday/trump-coronavirus.html" title="">more than just a Trump problem</a> &#8212; but on the margins, in the thousands if not the hundreds of thousands, Trumpian denial can still get Americans unnecessarily killed.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">As politics, meanwhile, even more than the mixed messaging on Biden and the missed opportunities on relief spending, the retreat to corona-minimizing is a case study in how the Trump of 2020 has ceded his biggest general-election advantage from 2016 &#8212; his relative distance from the ideological rigidities of the anti-government right &#8212; and locked himself into a small box with flatterers and cranks.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">From these follies the God of surprises might yet deliver him. But every decision of his own lately has been a choice for political defeat.</p></div>