--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/20/opinion/20krupnikova-ryan-01/20krupnikova-ryan-01-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Opinion | The Real Divide in America Is Between Political Junkies and Everyone Else 
description: > 
  We see this effect in a study we did with three other political scientists, James Druckman, Samara Klar and Matthew Levendusky.For partisans, politics is a morality play, a struggle of good versus evil.This is particularly true of social media: What a vocal minority shares on social media is not the opinion of the public.Yet such political tweets, as the political communication scholar Shannon McGregor finds, are increasingly making their way into news coverage as stand-ins for public opinion.Yes, hard partisans are more likely to reward ideological victories, but they are also a minority of the electorate. 
date: 1603190827.8650734 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">This gap between the politically indifferent and hard, loud partisans exacerbates the perception of a hopeless division in American politics because it is the partisans who define what it means to engage in politics. When a Democrat imagines a Republican, she is not imagining a co-worker who mostly posts cat pictures and happens to vote differently; she is more likely imagining a co-worker <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2016/10/25/the-tone-of-social-media-discussions-around-politics/" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">she had to mute on Facebook</a> because the Trump posts became too hard to bear.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">We see this effect in a <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.ipr.northwestern.edu/our-work/working-papers/2019/wp-19-25.html" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">study</a> we did with three other political scientists, James Druckman, Samara Klar and Matthew Levendusky. We asked a group of over 3,000 Americans to describe either themselves or members of the other party. Only 27 percent of these people said that they discuss politics frequently; a majority consider themselves moderates. But nearly 70 percent of these people believe that a typical member of the other party talks about politics incessantly and is definitely not moderate.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">For partisans, politics is a morality play, a struggle of good versus evil. But most Americans just see two angry groups of people bickering over issues that may not always seem pressing or important.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">How can politics better match the opinions of a majority of Americans? The fact is, it&#8217;s not an easy problem to solve. We can try to give the hardened partisans less voice in the news. Featuring people who exemplify partisan conflict and extremist ideas elevates their presence in politics (though of course by definition, it is the partisans who are most closely watching the news who are also most likely to give their opinions). This is particularly true of social media: What a vocal minority shares on social media is not the opinion of the public. Yet such political tweets, as the political communication scholar Shannon McGregor finds, are <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://static1.squarespace.com/static/570ef9191bbee0bb3dfef44f/t/5d1a4d6d5ec580000128c1f6/1562004845716/McGregorJournalism2019.pdf" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">increasingly making their way into news coverage</a> as stand-ins for public opinion.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">There might be an advantage for politicians who focus less on the demands of partisans and more on tangible issues. Yes, hard partisans are more likely to reward ideological victories, but they are also a minority of the electorate.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Each day, partisan Democrats wonder whether that day&#8217;s &#8220;outrage&#8221; will finally change how people feel about President Trump. Partisan Republicans wonder the same thing about Joe Biden. But most &#8220;regular&#8221; voters are not paying that much attention to the daily onslaught. It turns them off.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">And the major scandals that do break through? Well, to many of them, that is &#8220;just politics.&#8221;</p><p class="css-pncxxs etfikam0">Yanna Krupnikov (<a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://twitter.com/ykrupnikov" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">@ykrupnikov</a>) and John Barry Ryan (<a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://twitter.com/ryanbq" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">@ryanbq</a>), associate professors of political science at Stony Brook University, are the authors of a forthcoming book about polarization and disengagement in American politics.</p></div>