--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/22/opinion/22greenhouseWeb/22greenhouseWeb-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Opinion | What Does Amy Coney Barrett Mean for the Supreme Court? 
description: > 
  I don’t know whether the four justices who voted to block the Pennsylvania court’s decision have ever met Judge Barrett.It’s not too cynical to suppose that they wanted to make it clear to the base how much they needed Judge Barrett to join them, now, before other cases like this one inevitably come along.Do Supreme Court justices have a base?It emerged only once during last week’s hearing, in a question by Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont.Judge Barrett deflected the question with an answer that struck me as close to disingenuous, and the senator, either pressed for time or not fully understanding the exchange, let the matter drop. 
keywords: > 
  justices, opinion, amy, barrett, does, voted, know, mean, court, supreme, dont, indiana, judge, coney, stay 
date: 1603366726.1795738 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">No, of course I can&#8217;t. All I know for sure is who her friends are &#8212; and what she said and didn&#8217;t say during her two long days before the Senate Judiciary Committee last week. I don&#8217;t know whether the four justices who voted to block the Pennsylvania court&#8217;s decision have ever met Judge Barrett. But they seem to consider her their ally-in-waiting.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">I say that because when the Supreme Court denies a stay without opinion, as it did on Monday, there is no requirement or general practice for indicating the actual vote or the identities of the justices who voted one way or another. When a tie vote makes the court unable to decide a case it has actually heard on the merits, a more consequential step than the mere denial of a stay, the court says nothing more than &#8220;the judgment is affirmed by an equally divided court.&#8221; We are left to guess who was on which side.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Yet here, the four justices who voted unsuccessfully for a stay chose to reveal themselves by noting that they &#8220;would grant the application.&#8221; Why did they do that? It&#8217;s not too cynical to suppose that they wanted to make it clear to the base how much they needed Judge Barrett to join them, now, before other cases like this one inevitably come along. Do Supreme Court justices have a base? These do.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">On the subject of abortion, we don&#8217;t need to read tea leaves. We just need to know how to read. And I don&#8217;t mean <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://thehill.com/homenews/news/519219-amy-coney-barrett-signed-onto-2006-right-to-life-statement-in-newspaper" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">the statement</a> Judge Barrett signed back in 2006 opposing &#8220;abortion on demand&#8221; and supporting the &#8220;right to life from fertilization to a natural death.&#8221; I mean an opinion she joined in 2018 calling for her court, the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, to reconsider as a full court an opinion by a smaller panel of the court that had invalidated an Indiana anti-abortion law.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Because the opinion was a dissent, one that she joined but didn&#8217;t write, and because the requested full-court rehearing never took place, the case, <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="http://media.ca7.uscourts.gov/cgi-bin/rssExec.pl?Submit=Display&amp;Path=Y2018/D06-25/C:17-3163:J:PerCuriam:aut:T:npDp:N:2176287:S:0" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Planned Parenthood of Indiana and Kentucky v. Commissioner of the Indiana State Department of Health</a>, has remained under the radar. It emerged only once during last week&#8217;s hearing, in a question by Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont. Judge Barrett deflected the question with an answer that struck me as close to disingenuous, and the senator, either pressed for time or not fully understanding the exchange, let the matter drop.</p></div>