--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/OD6GEWQNO4I6XNAERUPGOXWHAE.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Opinion | The epic tragedy of the #MeToo Medusa 
description: > 
  As a piece of mythic art, Garbati’s Medusa figure is banal.But as a commentary about women and power, Garbati’s sword-wielding Medusa misses many points.But the statue’s new status as a symbol for #MeToo and female power has met with controversy.But Medusa was already a symbol of female power in her ability to use the male gaze against would-be predators.A Medusa in the spirit of #MeToo would have engaged her powers of self-protection against male harm. 
date: 1603139264.0676532 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">As a piece of mythic art, Garbati&#8217;s Medusa figure is banal. She is easy on the eyes &#8212; there is nothing visually challenging about her. But as a commentary about women and power, Garbati&#8217;s sword-wielding Medusa misses many points.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Garbati&#8217;s Medusa was placed outside the Manhattan courthouse where serial sex offender Harvey Weinstein was convicted. But the statue&#8217;s new status as a symbol for #MeToo and female power has met with controversy. While plenty of women have responded positively, several lines of criticism have emerged: Should a pretty, naked woman killing a man really serve as a symbol for women who have survived male abuse? #MeToo founder Tarana Burke blasted the statue&#8217;s elevation. On Instagram, she <a href="https://www.instagram.com/taranajaneen/?hl=en" target="_blank">said</a> that the &#8220;movement is not about retribution or revenge and it&#8217;s certainly not about violence. It is about HEALING and ACTION.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">To be fair to Garbati, he created his original work more than a decade ago, long before #MeToo. But given that #MeToo was founded by a Black woman, and that the movement has been accused of marginalizing non-White victims, the fact that Garbati&#8217;s Medusa is a White-featured woman reinforces the notion that beautiful, rich and powerful female accusers have been given the lion&#8217;s share of attention in the movement. Also, men, nonbinary people and children are victims of sexual violence, too.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But if we are to center the conversation around women, the problem with Garbati&#8217;s statue is that it strips Medusa, and thus women, of our true power.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Garbati&#8217;s work is an invitation to peel back layers of <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/qvxwax/medusa-greek-myth-rape-victim-turned-into-a-monster" target="_blank">classical mythology</a>, so let&#8217;s do that: As one strain of the story goes, Medusa was a beautiful handmaiden to Athena, goddess of justice and wisdom. Medusa&#8217;s beauty ensnared her in the lustful and entitled gaze of the sea god Poseidon, who raped her. Poseidon is also the brother of Zeus, and Athena&#8217;s uncle, and instead of punishing Poseidon for his crime, Athena turns Medusa into a snake-haired Gorgon with the power to transform men who look at her into stone.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">You can understand why many interpretations hold that Athena punished the once-beautiful Medusa by turning her into a monster. But is this really true? Did Athena punish Medusa, or did she empower her?</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">And Medusa <i>was</i> empowered. She gained the ability to protect herself from ever being raped again, through an ability to use the male gaze against men. This, of course, is not a charitable read on men&#8217;s ability to practice self-control: What makes Medusa so dangerous is the notion that men just can&#8217;t help themselves but to look. Remember, Athena was born out of Zeus&#8217;s skull &#8212; she knows intimately how men with power think.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Feminist writer <a href="https://collectiveliberation.org/wp-content/uploads/2013/01/Lorde_The_Masters_Tools.pdf" target="_blank">Audre Lorde</a> once said: &#8220;The master&#8217;s tools will never dismantle the master&#8217;s house. They may allow us temporarily to beat him at his own game, but they will never enable us to bring about genuine change.&#8221; Garbati&#8217;s Medusa nonsensically employs a male tool for bloodshed &#8212; Perseus&#8217;s sword &#8212; as a symbol of female empowerment, sending the message that women need to copy men&#8217;s tactics to wield power. But Medusa was <i>already</i> a symbol of female power in her ability to use the male gaze against would-be predators. Why couldn&#8217;t <i>that</i> power have been preserved and represented?</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Too often, we imagine that women have to adopt male notions of power, aggression and violence to be strong. Don&#8217;t believe it.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">There&#8217;s nothing scary &#8212; and something strange &#8212; about a sword-wielding Medusa. A Medusa in the spirit of #MeToo would have engaged her powers of self-protection against male harm. A truer reimagining of the tale should have had Medusa, perhaps with Athena&#8217;s help, confronting and defeating Poseidon with her stony gaze, making her a heroine, a fierce protectress of women who have been brutalized by men.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Garbati&#8217;s Medusa is an example of the fact that we still &#8212; still &#8212; live in a world in which men fear or misunderstand the depth of women&#8217;s power. Our power, even our mythical powers, remain misrepresented and minimized. Perhaps that&#8217;s the real Greek tragedy of this all.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><b>Read more:</b></p></div>