--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/AO3PTAAOLUI6XNAERUPGOXWHAE.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Opinion | Judge Amy Coney Barrett and the future of physician-assisted suicide 
description: > 
  Gorsuch published a book in 2006 questioning European euthanasia laws and defending then-existing state laws in the United States prohibiting doctor-assisted suicide.ADADThe Supreme Court has reversed itself on social issues — state bans against consensual intimacy between same-sex partners being a good example — before.And in 2015, Canada’s Supreme Court ruled that that country’s Charter of Rights and Freedoms mandated not only physician-assisted suicide but also doctor-provided euthanasia — even though the same court had reached the opposite conclusion 22 years earlier.ADEight of the 50 states and D.C. have permitted physician-assisted suicide, by statute or referendum.(In one, Montana, the state Supreme Court decreed it as a matter of state law, and legislators have tried, unsuccessfully so far, to overturn that ruling.) 
date: 1603156928.1273973 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The public appears increasingly sympathetic to such laws, but Barrett would join Justices Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M.&#160;Kavanaugh as Trump appointees who, as of the time they were nominated, had given implicit but clear indicia that they would vote no on a &#8220;right to die,&#8221; just as all nine justices did in the 1997 case of <i>Washington v. Glucksberg</i>.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Gorsuch published a book in 2006 questioning European euthanasia laws and defending then-existing state laws in the United States prohibiting doctor-assisted suicide. Kavanaugh served as a top official in the Bush administration as it tried to block physicians from prescribing lethal dosages under Oregon&#8217;s assisted-suicide law.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">And Barrett <a href="https://scholarship.law.nd.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1523&amp;amp;context=law_faculty_scholarship">co-wrote a 1998 law review </a>article in which she distinguished the dilemmas Catholic judges might face in following church teachings against capital punishment, as well as what she called a more &#8220;absolute&#8221; doctrine banning abortion and euthanasia, which &#8220;take away innocent life.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Gorsuch, Kavanaugh and Barrett would join three conservatives, John G.&#8201;Roberts Jr., Samuel A. Alito Jr. and Clarence Thomas, whose <a href="https://supreme.justia.com/cases/federal/us/546/243/#tab-opinion-1961981">records imply</a> support for <i>Glucksberg. </i>Its essential holding was that the emerging norms of autonomy and dignity embodied in the right-to-die movement <a href="https://www.law.cornell.edu/supct/html/96-110.ZS.html" title="www.law.cornell.edu">were not</a> &#8220;deeply rooted in this Nation&#8217;s history and tradition&#8221; and could not  define a fundamental right.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A court staffed by Hillary Clinton might have viewed that precedent differently, especially since the holding in <i>Glucksberg</i> is not necessarily popular: Though physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia are controversial and opposed on principle by devout Catholics (of which Barrett is one), <a href="https://news.gallup.com/poll/235145/americans-strong-support-euthanasia-persists.aspx">polls show</a> that most Americans support legalizing them.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Supreme Court has reversed itself on social issues &#8212; state bans against <a href="https://www.oyez.org/cases/1985/85-140">consensual</a> <a href="https://www.oyez.org/cases/2002/02-102">intimacy</a> between same-sex partners being a good example &#8212; before. And in 2015, <a href="https://www.justice.gc.ca/eng/cj-jp/ad-am/scc-csc.html">Canada&#8217;s </a>Supreme Court ruled that that country&#8217;s Charter of Rights and Freedoms mandated not only physician-assisted suicide but also doctor-provided euthanasia &#8212; even though the same court had reached the opposite conclusion 22 years earlier.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Stare decisis, the legal principle that past rulings should usually be left to stand, is &#8220;not a straitjacket that condemns the law to stasis,&#8221; the Canadian court noted, and a new &#8220;matrix of legislative and social facts&#8221; had to be considered.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">On the whole, though, Americans, including proponents of a right to die, are probably better off leaving <i>Glucksberg</i> as settled law.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">That&#8217;s because, while not required to allow physician-assisted suicide, the states are also not forbidden to legalize it, per a 2006 ruling, <i>Gonzales v. Oregon</i>, in which the Supreme Court rebuffed the Bush administration&#8217;s attempt to treat that state&#8217;s doctors who prescribed lethal doses under state assisted-suicide law as violators of the federal Controlled Substances Act.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><a href="https://www.deathwithdignity.org/learn/death-with-dignity-acts/">Eight</a> of the 50 states and D.C. have permitted physician-assisted suicide, by statute or referendum. (In one, Montana, the state Supreme Court decreed it as a matter of state law, and legislators have tried, unsuccessfully so far, to overturn that ruling.)</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The combined effect of the <i>Glucksberg</i> and <i>Gonzale</i>s cases is this: If there is to be a right to die in the United States, democratic processes in the states and, possibly, Congress will establish its contours, not the lapidary phrases of a Supreme Court opinion.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The resulting body of law will enjoy greater legitimacy by virtue of its having been arrived at by politically accountable lawmakers through open debate &#8212; and its being subject to amendment or repeal should experience reveal unanticipated new challenges or unintended consequences.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Surely the history of <i>Roe v. Wade</i> and its repercussions &#8212; political and legal &#8212; shows the risks of shifting the discussion of all such nuances into the federal judiciary, especially when the underlying issue involves sensitive questions surrounding the beginning, and end, of life.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Support Barrett or oppose her, she had a point when she wrote, in a 2013 law review article on stare decisis: &#8220;The public response to controversial cases like <i>Roe</i> reflects public rejection of the proposition that stare decisis can declare a permanent victor in a divisive constitutional struggle.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Barrett&#8217;s mentor, the late Justice Antonin Scalia, dissented in <i>Gonzales</i>, on the grounds that federal controlled-substance law requires barbiturates be used for a &#8220;legitimate medical purpose,&#8221; which, in his view, could not possibly include physician-assisted suicide. (Roberts and Thomas joined Scalia&#8217;s opinion.)</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">For the court to adopt Scalia&#8217;s view &#8212; to overrule <i>Gonzales</i> while retaining <i>Glucksberg</i> &#8212; would tilt the current legal balance against physician-assisted suicide and euthanasia, another reason to focus on Barrett&#8217;s assertion, at the hearing, that &#8220;<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/2020/10/14/daily-202-amy-barrett-distances-herself-antonin-scalia-confirmation-hearing/?itid=lk_inline_manual_27" title="www.washingtonpost.com">no one should assume</a>&#8221; she will always do what Scalia would have.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><b>Read more:</b></p></div>