--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/18/opinion/18warzel/18warzel-facebookJumbo-v3.jpg 
title: > 
  Opinion | The Facebook-Twitter-Trump Wars Are Actually About Something Else 
description: > 
  The argument in favor of deplatforming the president is a strong one, given that he frequently flouts and violates the company’s rules.But the calls to ban Mr. Trump don’t stem from a deep respect of Twitter’s rules but instead from concerns about national security.In 2017, Mr. Trump’s tweets about North Korea were interpreted by North Korean officials as an act of war.And, of course, the problem with Mr. Trump is much bigger than his tweets.Still, none of this absolves the social media companies. 
date: 1603072116.7607088 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Ms. Jurecic argues that the tech giants can feel like the only checks left standing &#8212; because they&#8217;re among the few entities with any power at all. &#8220;It&#8217;s as if a train has skidded off the rails and jumped every barrier, and Facebook and Twitter are standing there waving their arms and yelling, &#8220;Stop!&#8221; But they&#8217;re not going to be able to make it stop all on their own.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The best example of this is the four-year debate over whether Twitter should ban Mr. Trump for his conspiratorial, untrue and geopolitically dangerous tweets. The argument in favor of deplatforming the president is a strong one, given that he frequently flouts and violates the company&#8217;s rules. But the calls to ban Mr. Trump don&#8217;t stem from a deep respect of Twitter&#8217;s rules but instead from concerns about national security. His winking calls to &#8220;LIBERATE&#8221; are potentially destabilizing. His constant tweets pushing mail-in ballot misinformation threaten to undermine the integrity of the election. In 2017, Mr. Trump&#8217;s <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.buzzfeednews.com/article/charliewarzel/north-korea-says-trumps-tweet-is-a-declaration-of-war" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">tweets about North Korea</a> were interpreted by North Korean officials as an act of war.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">These tweets are destabilizing and threatening. Still, deplatforming the president &#8212;&#160;even a profoundly unfit one &#8212;&#160;<a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/01/07/opinion/facebook-trump-iran.html" title="">appears out of the question</a> for these companies. And, of course, the problem with Mr. Trump is much bigger than his tweets. As Casey Newton, a tech writer who writes the Platformer newsletter, <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.platformer.news/p/the-covid-presidency-arrives-on-platforms" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">noted recently</a>, &#8220;Trump is a problem platforms can&#8217;t solve.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Mr. Newton came to that conclusion citing <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3703701" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">recent research</a> from Harvard&#8217;s Berkman Klein Center that suggested &#8220;social media played only a secondary and supportive role&#8221; in the recent high-profile voting disinformation campaign. Mr. Trump&#8217;s &#8220;position as president and his leadership of the Republican Party allow him to operate directly through political and media elites, rather than relying on online media,&#8221; the Harvard researchers argued.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">It&#8217;s a decent argument that Donald Trump is, himself, a platform. (After all, he elevates and amplifies people and ideas, is a natural radicalization engine and feeds off our attention.) Still, none of this absolves the social media companies. They are responsible for the loopholes they&#8217;ve created to allow the president and other elected officials to lie. Not only that, they help to amplify those lies and blur the lines of reality. And their speech moderation policies work only when they&#8217;re enforced consistently and transparently &#8212; something few, if any, social media platforms have managed to do (on Friday Twitter <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/16/technology/twitter-new-york-post.html" title="">reversed its policy</a> on the Hunter Biden story).</p></div>