--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/MIRDO5HI3QI6VP2EBUY4QWBYUU.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Opinion | The GOP’s agenda under Trump: Voter suppression, pandemic denial and a personality cult 
description: > 
  What are the large, organizing commitments of the GOP during the Trump captivity?There have been Republican efforts to make voting more difficult in Georgia, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Nevada, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Texas, Iowa and Oklahoma.ADThe second characteristic of the new GOP is denial of a pandemic in the midst of a surging pandemic.ADThe third organizing commitment of the GOP under Trump is loyalty to his person.ADWhat should we make of this GOP agenda: voter suppression, disease denial and a personality cult dedicated to a con man? 
date: 1603210185.8444874 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">After nearly four years, it is fair to ask: With the GOP as putty in Trump&#8217;s hand, what form has it taken? What are the large, organizing commitments of the GOP during the Trump captivity?</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">One would have to be <i>voter suppression</i>. What began, for some, as an effort to ensure ballot security has become a campaign to control the content of the electorate by limiting its size.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Not long ago, I would have regarded this as conspiracy thinking. At some point, however, a pattern becomes a plot. There have been Republican efforts to make voting more difficult in Georgia, Wisconsin, Pennsylvania, Nevada, Florida, Illinois, Michigan, Texas, Iowa and Oklahoma. These have included: complicated absentee ballot processes, strict voter ID rules, obstacles for voters returning from prison, objections to the broad distribution of ballots and logistical obstacles to early voting. The Republican governor of Texas, Greg Abbott, set the example of shamelessness by limiting vast counties to a <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/national-security/judge-blocks-texas-governors-restriction-on-mail-ballot-drop-off/2020/10/10/70b70cfc-0aff-11eb-859b-f9c27abe638d_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_8" title="www.washingtonpost.com">single ballot drop box</a>. The president has attempted to destroy trust in the whole electoral enterprise in preparation for legal challenges to mail-in votes.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Again and again, Republicans have used, or attempted to use, the power they gained from voters to undermine democracy. This has a political intention but (for some) it also has an ideological explanation. It is the logical electoral implication of nativism. If too much diversity is the cause of our national problems, it can be fought by restricting immigration or by restricting the democratic participation of minorities. In either case, these are actions motivated by Republican fears of being swamped by people they can&#8217;t relate to and voted into obsolescence. So the GOP seems to expend more energy and creativity on discouraging minority voting than it does on doing minority outreach.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The second characteristic of the new GOP is <i>denial of a pandemic in the midst of a surging pandemic</i>. Trump and many other Republicans think they can win only if American voters forget about <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2020/national/coronavirus-us-cases-deaths/?itid=lk_inline_manual_11" title="www.washingtonpost.com">more than 219,000 deaths</a> from covid-19 and the utterly incompetent federal response to the crisis. It is hard to recall any American presidential campaign that depended so directly on the outbreak of mass amnesia.</p><p></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump&#8217;s recent campaign visit to Wisconsin was remarkable for its brazenness. On a day Wisconsin saw its <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/live/2020/10/17/world/covid-coronavirus#trump-charges-into-wisconsin-to-rally-supporters-amid-the-states-worst-outbreak-to-date" title="www.nytimes.com">highest level</a> of new infections during the pandemic, Trump told a crowd that had to be screened for coughs and fevers that the country was &#8220;rounding the corner&#8221; on covid-19 and that their state was insufficiently open. This is denial pressed to the point of lunacy. It is the elephant urging people to ignore the elephant in the room.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The third organizing commitment of the GOP under Trump is <i>loyalty to his person</i>. At the beginning of his term, there was a Republican attempt to understand the populism that elected Trump and draw its policy implications. That ended quickly. The president made clear that the only thing that really mattered about populism was its end product: himself.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Populist causes &#8212; such as discrediting the media and &#8220;owning the libs&#8221; &#8212; are instruments to protect Trump from attack and project his own power. His whole term has been the chaotic and brutish attempt to find the people who would take his whims as law. And elected Republicans (except the admirable Sen. Mitt Romney of Utah) have been ruled by the fear of Trump&#8217;s tweeted tantrums. As Trump seems headed toward electoral failure, a few Republicans are recovering their own voices. But it won&#8217;t be easy to escape this taint. Years of complicity with Trump&#8217;s assault on American institutions is less like a bad haircut than an infected tattoo.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Some would add a <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/the-gop-is-lying-its-way-toward-expanding-the-supreme-courts-conservative-majority/2020/10/09/e7f41772-0a66-11eb-9be6-cf25fb429f1a_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_20" title="www.washingtonpost.com">conservative judiciary</a> to this list of GOP commitments, and there is a case to be made. But this is no longer advocated in the context of moral conservatism, as it was in the Reagan era. The goal now is to secure conservative judges from a morally anarchic administration. A cause has been reduced to a transaction.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">What should we make of this GOP agenda: voter suppression, disease denial and a personality cult dedicated to a con man? It is the weakest appeal to the public of any modern presidential candidate. The Republican Party may win or lose. But it deserves to lose.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><b>Read more:</b></p></div>