--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.gannett-cdn.com/presto/2019/03/26/USAT/8af01360-e3ea-4818-84b3-6365d32954a8-AP19085514548577.jpg?crop=2999,1679,x0,y0&width=2999&height=1679&format=pjpg&auto=webp 
title: > 
  OxyContin maker agrees to plead guilty to federal criminal charges in $8 billion settlement 
description: > 
  WASHINGTON — Purdue Pharma, the company whose OxyContin painkiller drove a nationwide opioid epidemic, has agreed to plead guilty to federal criminal charges as part of a settlement with the government that includes fines of more than $8 billion, the Justice Department announced Wednesday.The company, according to the agreement, will plead guilty to fraud and violations of the federal kickback laws.The criminal charges do not, however, absolve the company's owners, the Sackler family, of future criminal liability, federal authorities said.Purdue will make a direct payment to the government of $225 million, which is part of a larger $2 billion criminal forfeiture.The company is also required to cooperate with the ongoing federal investigation and potential other prosecutions. 
keywords: > 
  charges, criminal, oxycontin, officials, settlement, federal, companys, purdue, public, company, opioid, agrees, maker, plead, guilty, billion 
date: 1603297391.9668994 
--- 
<div><p class="teal-video-wrap"></p><p class="gnt_em_vt"></p><p class="gnt_em_vb gnt_em_vb__te"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">WASHINGTON&#160;&#8212; Purdue Pharma, the company whose OxyContin painkiller drove a nationwide&#160;opioid epidemic, has agreed to plead guilty to federal criminal charges as part of a settlement with the government that includes fines of more than $8 billion, the Justice Department announced Wednesday.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The company, according to the agreement, will plead guilty to fraud and violations of the federal kickback laws. The criminal charges do not, however, absolve the company's owners, the Sackler family, of future criminal liability, federal authorities said.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The settlement is the highest-profile display yet of the federal government seeking to hold a major drugmaker responsible for an opioid addiction and overdose crisis linked to more than 470,000 deaths in the country since 2000.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The settlement comes less than two weeks before a presidential election where the opioid epidemic has taken a&#160;political back seat&#160;to the coronavirus pandemic and other issues. But the deal does give President Donald Trump&#8217;s administration an example of action on the addiction crisis, which he promised early in his term.</p><p id="~ad-slot-7103-usatoday-native-article_link-news-politics-2" class="gnt_x_sl gnt_x_al"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">As part of the resolution, Purdue will admit that it impeded the Drug Enforcement Administration by falsely representing that it had maintained an effective program to avoid drug diversion and by reporting misleading information to the agency to boost the company&#8217;s manufacturing quotas,&#160;officials said.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Purdue had been representing to the DEA that it had &#8220;robust controls&#8221; to avoid opioid diversion but instead had been &#8220;disregarding red flags their own systems were sending up,&#8221; authorities said.</p><p id="~ad-slot-7103-usatoday-native-article_link-news-politics-3" class="gnt_x_sl gnt_x_al"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Purdue will also admit to violating federal anti-kickback laws by paying doctors, through a speaking program, to induce them to write more prescriptions for the company&#8217;s opioids and for using electronic health records software to influence the prescription of pain medication.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Purdue will make a direct payment to the government of $225 million, which is part of a larger $2 billion criminal forfeiture. In addition to that forfeiture, Purdue also faces a $3.54 billion criminal fine, though that money probably will not be fully collected because it will be taken through a bankruptcy, which includes a large number of other creditors. Purdue will also agree to $2.8 billion in damages to resolve its civil liability.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Purdue would transform into a public benefit company, meaning it would be governed by a trust that has to balance the trust&#8217;s interests against those of the American public and public health, the officials said. The Sacklers would not be involved in the new company and part of the money from the settlement would go to aid in medically assisted treatment and other drug programs to combat the opioid epidemic, the officials said. That arrangement mirrors a key element of the company&#8217;s proposal to settle about 3,000 lawsuits filed by state, local and Native American tribal governments.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The company is also required to cooperate with the ongoing federal investigation and potential other prosecutions.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Contributing: Associated Press</p></div>