--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/flathead-straws.jpg?w=409 
title: > 
  Perch raises $123.5M to grow its stable of D2C brands that sell on Amazon – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  Perch, which acquires D2C businesses and products that are already selling on Amazon, and then continues to operate and grow those operations, has raised $123.5 million in funding.The company currently counts women’s athleisure brand Satina, kitchenware from Flathead and Aulett and others, health and personal care brands among its stable of companies.Perch has essentially picked up on that idea and is developing its own take on it around the D2C model.Facebook/Instagram stores have promise but still very nascent.”Interestingly, the Perch proposition provides a very different alternative to the e-commerce landscape that others see.Some like Shogun have built their business on premise that the only way foward is to move away from a reliance on third-party marketplaces like those of Amazon, Perch has doubled down on it, seemingly confident that it’s here to stay. 
date: 1603200092.2854536 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary">While Amazon gradually builds out its own-branded line of products, third-party sellers continue to account for a significant part of the transaction volume and growth on its marketplace &#8212; by one <a href="https://www.marketplacepulse.com/articles/amazon-gmv-in-2019" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">estimate</a>, accounting for $200 billion of the $335 billion in gross merchandise value sold on Amazon in 2019. Today, in a twist on the economies of scale that has propelled much of Amazon&#8217;s growth, a Boston startup that has built a tech platform that it uses both to buy up and then run D2C brands sold on Amazon is announcing a major round of growth funding to expand its business.</p>
<p><a href="http://perchhq.com" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Perch</a>, which acquires D2C businesses and products that are already selling on Amazon, and then continues to operate and grow those operations, has raised $123.5 million in funding.</p>
<p><a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/perch-d715" target="_blank">Perch </a> plans to use the capital mainly to continue acquiring D2C businesses, as well as to build out its team and invest in its platform, &#8220;but we are profitable so we plan to use cashflows from the business to build the team and the funding toward acquiring additional winning brands and products,&#8221; said Chris Bell, Perch&#8217;s CEO and founder, in an interview over email.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>The company currently counts women&#8217;s athleisure brand Satina, kitchenware from Flathead and Aulett and others, health and personal care brands among its stable of companies. There are just 10 on the platform today, and the funding is coming on the back of success so far, as well as ambitious plans to grow that to 50 by the end of 2021, and eventually hundreds or thousands of brands.</p>
<p>And before you think that this is just about running a lot of smaller businesses together, Bell adds that &#8220;technology is the most important part of our model.&#8221;</p>
<p>Some 40% of the startup&#8217;s team works on its platform, which is used to onboard &#8220;eventually thousands of brands at scale in an e-commerce-native environment.&#8221; The platform is used to help run analytics on sales, determine pricing and ad strategy, and inventory positioning and other marketing decisions. Longer term it will also be used to help figure out how to sell and balance products on social and retail channels (while ultimately selling through Amazon, for now).</p>
<p>The funding &#8212; which brings the total raised by Perch to over $130 million &#8212; is being led by Spark Capital, with previous backer Tectonic Ventures and new investor Boston Seed also participating. The startup is not disclosing its valuation with this round.</p>
<p>Amazon has grown in part on the principle of economies of scale, both in terms of procurement as well as in distribution. Both in the case of physical or digital goods, small margins on sales of a huge array of products adds up to strong returns; and the same goes for working out the costs for operating a logistics and distribution network.</p>
<p>Perch has essentially picked up on that idea and is developing its own take on it around the D2C model.</p>
<p>Direct-to-consumer businesses have been one of the big stories in e-commerce in the last decade: companies are leveraging the internet and newer innovations in manufacturing to build their own products and brands that they sell direct to customers, bypassing traditional retail chains, with some like Everlane, Warby Parker and Third Love finding huge success in the process.</p>
<p>But while a lot of those sales have focused around D2C companies developing their own sites or via social media, a very large proportion of the smaller players are also selling through marketplaces &#8212; and specifically Amazon&#8217;s marketplace.</p>
<p>As a larger category, they are growing fast &#8212; up 50% year-on-year in 2020, with some 86% of third-party sellers profitable.</p>
<p>But on an individual basis, most of them don&#8217;t necessarily have a strategy for how they will scale or exit the business eventually, so the opportunity here is to bring a number of these more promising smaller D2C brands into a bigger operation &#8212; the idea being to bring more economies of scale both to manufacturing those products as well as to collectively distributing them over Amazon.</p>
<p>&#8220;We typically do not retain the entrepreneurs or founders beyond a transition period, though we are open-minded if there is the right fit, though they are often excited to take some time off or start their next adventure,&#8221; said Bell. &#8220;For staff or contractors who work with the founder on the brand, we have a discussion with the founder and those individuals throughout the process and depending on need or mutual discussion we have retained some of those relationships.&#8221;</p>
<p>It&#8217;s Perch&#8217;s own realization of how to expand the economies of scale for D2C that has attracted investors here.</p>
<p>&#8220;The Perch team has the M&amp;A, eCommerce, and Amazon experience to understand what makes a quality and scalable consumer product and take those products to the next level post-acquisition,&#8221; said Alex Finkelstein, General Partner, Spark Capital, in a statement. &#8220;We are beyond excited to lead this round. Perch is already off to an exceptionally strong start. Given the booming eCommerce market, I expect we will continue to see record numbers and additional acquisitions this year.&#8221;</p>
<p>Bell added that while any company can approach it to get acquired, it has a relatively strict set of criteria for what it would seriously consider.</p>
<p>&#8220;We look for winning products and brands,&#8221; he said. &#8220;What that means is the products need to have a proven track record of product-market fit, as evidenced through at least 18-24 months of profitable sales, great customer reviews, low return rate, no evidence of consistent product quality issues, and a trademarked brand that is recognized and enforced by their channel partners / marketplaces.&#8221;</p>
<p>There have been a number of companies that are trying to muscle in on Amazon&#8217;s supremacy in online retail markplaces in the US &#8212; including the likes of Walmart and Alibaba &#8212; but for now Amazon continues to be the main game in town, Bell said. (And no surprise there: <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2018/07/13/amazons-share-of-the-us-e-commerce-market-is-now-49-or-5-of-all-retail-spend/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">one estimate in 2018</a> was that it was hovering at 49% marketshare in e-commerce in the U.S.)</p>
<p>&#8220;Amazon has created the leading third-party seller marketplace in a really differentiated way,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Not only do they have the most consumers visiting every day, but they also have the most maturity around technical integrations, brand protections, and a best-in-class fulfillment operation.&#8221;</p>
<p>He added that &#8220;Walmart is making good strides in terms of developing their seller services and technical integrations, and their announcement that they will be offering fulfillment for 3rd party merchants will help considerably. I expect they will continue to gain share, but they have a really long way to go to catch up with both consumers and marketplace sellers.&#8221; In terms of others, he also noted that &#8220;Google appears to be investing in their marketplace, but we haven&#8217;t seen as much traction there. Without an integrated fulfillment option, many sellers would prefer to use their Google ad dollars to send consumers to their own page to transact rather than through Google&#8217;s marketplace. Facebook/Instagram stores have promise but still very nascent.&#8221;</p>
<p>Interestingly, the Perch proposition provides a very different alternative to the e-commerce landscape that others see. Some <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/10/07/shogun-raises-35m-to-help-brands-take-on-amazon-with-faster-and-better-sites-of-their-own/" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">like Shogun</a> have built their business on premise that the only way foward is to move away from a reliance on third-party marketplaces like those of Amazon, Perch has doubled down on it, seemingly confident that it&#8217;s here to stay. And indeed, the bigger that Perch grows, the more likely it is that the bulked-up company has a chance of having some negotiating power of its own.</p>
<p>&#8220;We have some sales through standalone brand sites, but the vast majority of our focus is on the marketplace and we expect that to continue for the immediate future,&#8221; said Bell.</p>
			</div>