--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://ca-times.brightspotcdn.com/dims4/default/337c369/2147483647/strip/true/crop/2045x1074+0+38/resize/1200x630!/quality/90/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcalifornia-times-brightspot.s3.amazonaws.com%2Fe7%2F20%2Ff884ac3c8139eff5f9840c728361%2Fla-1548802285-x3wwijwf6o-snap-image 
title: > 
  PG&E didn’t prioritize meaningfully reducing fire risk, monitor says 
description: > 
  PG&E Corp. prioritized meeting numerical inspection targets over meaningful reduction of wildfire risk, according to a monitor overseeing the utility’s program of trimming trees and vegetation that pose a threat of devastating blazes in California.The failures are “the same problems that offender PG&E has long had,” Alsup wrote.He has previously harshly criticized PG&E for falling behind on fire safety maintenance, including vegetation management.“PG&E shares the court’s focus on safety and recognizes that we must take a leading role in reducing the risk of wildfire throughout Northern and Central California,” the company said in a statement.AdvertisementThe findings “strongly suggest” that PG&E prioritized hitting inspections targets “over the most meaningful wildfire risk reduction,” Filip said. 
keywords: > 
  didnt, safety, inspections, wildfire, targets, monitor, prioritize, meaningfully, filip, alsup, pge, reducing, risk, trees 
date: 1603246434.4110713 
--- 
<div><p>PG&amp;E Corp. prioritized meeting numerical inspection targets over meaningful reduction of wildfire risk, according to a monitor overseeing the utility&#8217;s program of trimming trees and vegetation that pose a threat of devastating blazes in California.</p><p>Among the court-appointed compliance monitor&#8217;s findings: The company failed to conduct detailed climbing inspections of 967 transmission structures in high-fire-risk areas before the start of the peak wildfire season. Wind damage to one such tower was the cause in 2018 of <a class="link" href="https://www.latimes.com/local/california/la-me-camp-fire-tictoc-20181118-story.html">the state&#8217;s deadliest wildfire</a>, which killed 85 people and destroyed the town of Paradise.</p><p>U.S. District Judge William Alsup said in a court filing Tuesday that the monitor has uncovered numerous shortcomings due to human error and a failure to escalate problems.</p><p>The failures are &#8220;the same problems that offender PG&amp;E has long had,&#8221; Alsup wrote. He set a Nov. 3 deadline for the utility to respond.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-addc147733-3d0d-4e9e-b4fa-67ba01026086" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p>The judge oversees the company&#8217;s criminal probation stemming from a conviction for safety violations after <a class="link" href="https://www.latimes.com/local/la-xpm-2011-aug-30-la-me-0831-san-bruno-20110831-story.html" target="_blank">a fatal gas-pipeline explosion</a> in 2010. He has previously harshly criticized PG&amp;E for falling behind on fire safety maintenance, including vegetation management.</p><p>&#8220;PG&amp;E shares the court&#8217;s focus on safety and recognizes that we must take a leading role in reducing the risk of wildfire throughout Northern and Central California,&#8221; the company said in a statement. &#8220;We&#8217;re aware of the monitor&#8217;s letter and related order from the court. We are currently reviewing and plan to respond by the deadline given by the court.&#8221;</p><p>Alsup&#8217;s filing comes as PG&amp;E is aiming to restore its tattered reputation with state regulators, lawmakers and customers after having been blamed for starting some of California&#8217;s worst fires. In June, the utility pleaded guilty to 84 counts of involuntary manslaughter for the 2018 Camp fire.</p><p>The monitor, Mark Filip, reported to Alsup that PG&amp;E has missed more trees this year than late last year requiring trimming or removal because they pose a risk of contact with PG&amp;E&#8217;s power lines or towers. Filip said one reason for the increase may be that last year, as PG&amp;E pushed to meet inspection targets, it diverged from its own risk model by counting stretches of power line with fewer trees and some portions surrounded by no trees at all.</p><p class="google-dfp-ad-caption">Advertisement</p>
    <p id="google-add3586916-88d9-420d-add7-4632eee8e378" class="google-dfp-ad injected">
        <p class="google-dfp-ad-placeholder"></p>
    </p>
<p></p><p id="nativo_1"></p><p>The findings &#8220;strongly suggest&#8221; that PG&amp;E prioritized hitting inspections targets &#8220;over the most meaningful wildfire risk reduction,&#8221; Filip said.</p><p>The failure to do the climbing inspections of the towers appears to have been caused by &#8220;human error, lack of oversight, miscommunications and failure to properly escalate matters,&#8221; Filip wrote. PG&amp;E has said it plans to complete these inspections by Thanksgiving, he said.</p><p>Last week, Alsup ordered PG&amp;E to explain whether it had a role in igniting the September Zogg fire in Northern California, which killed four people and burned more than 56,000 acres in the Sierra Nevada. </p></div>