--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/20/21/newFile.jpg 
title: > 
  PSG vs Manchester United result, final score and report 
description: > 
  On their return to Paris, Marcus Rashford once again struck late to ensure that United made a winning start to their Champions League campaign.Paris Saint-Germain were a shadow of the side which reached the final of this competition just two months ago.Anthony Martial’s own goal at the start of the second half looked as though it would deny United three important points.But even with practically everything going to plan, United still required a Fernandes penalty to put them ahead.It said everything that Tuanzebe - making his first United appearance of the calendar year - had Mbappé in his pocket. 
keywords: > 
  psg, paris, united, solskjaers, vs, gea, martial, score, rashford, result, goal, manchester, final, mbappé, report, penalty, start 
date: 1603248307.0381181 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pAoIE JavQY"></p><p class="sc-pIkGh dCBfFP"></p><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p>If the victory at the Parc des Princes in March of last year was Ole Gunnar Solskjaer&#8217;s greatest night in charge of <a href="/topic/manchester-united">Manchester United</a>, this may be their greatest performance. On their return to Paris, Marcus Rashford once again struck late to ensure that United made a winning start to their <a href="/topic/champions-league">Champions League</a> campaign.
</p><p>There has been much valid criticism of Solskjaer - not least in these pages, not least in the last few weeks - but even the sceptics must admit that his preferred style of play is tailor-made to produce results like this. <a href="/topic/paris-saint-germain">Paris Saint-Germain</a> were a shadow of the side which reached the final of this competition just two months ago.
</p><p></p><p>Neymar was largely anonymous. Kylian Mbapp&#233; carried more menace but was expertly handled by Aaron Wan-Bissaka and Axel Tuanzebe. United both nullified Paris&#8217; greatest threats and posed some of their own. Yet one moment appeared as though it would be their undoing.
</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>Anthony Martial&#8217;s own goal at the start of the second half looked as though it would deny United three important points. Solskjaer&#8217;s side had taken the lead through a re-taken Bruno Fernandes penalty and were excellent value for their lead, but a momentary lapse in concentration from Martial on a corner could have proved costly.
</p><p></p><p></p><p>But with three minutes of normal time remaining, Rashford spun on his heels and struck to inflict Paris&#8217; first group stage home defeat in 16 years. Semi-finalists RB Leipzig due to visit Old Trafford next week and though Group H was touted as the most difficult following the draw at the start of this month, it may just suit United right down to the ground.
</p><p>United&#8217;s only disappointment at the end of the first half was that they were only one goal ahead. Solskjaer&#8217;s players executed his game plan to perfection in the opening 45 minutes, flummoxing Paris in the process. Like on their last visit to the Parc des Princes, United were happy to cede possession in exchange for space on the counter-attack. It worked.
</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>But even with practically everything going to plan, United still required a Fernandes penalty to put them ahead. Solskjaer&#8217;s captain for the evening put his miss at Newcastle on Saturday to the back of his mind and stepped up once again after Martial was tripped by Amadou Diallo. &#160;</p><p>His tame kick was saved by Keylor Navas, but only after the Paris goalkeeper had encroached with both feet off the goal-line. Much to Neymar&#8217;s annoyance, referee Antonio Mateu Lahoz ordered a re-take and Fernandes won the battle of wits at the second attempt, rolling the ball to the bottom-right once again but sending Navas to the bottom-left.
</p><p>Those expecting an immediate response from Paris would be disappointed. Last season&#8217;s runners-up had drawn two saves from David de Gea in early stages but otherwise badly struggled for momentum. It said everything that Tuanzebe - making his first United appearance of the calendar year - had Mbapp&#233; in his pocket.
</p><p>Very few defences keep Mbapp&#233; quiet for long, however. At the start of the second half, shortly after Marcus Rashford had wasted one promising United counter-attack, De Gea denied European football&#8217;s most explosive young forward, parrying a goal-bound shot after Mbapp&#233; had turned Scott McTominay and Aaron Wan-Bissaka inside out.
</p><p></p><p>Paris were improving - Tuchel had responded to their lack of attacking presence by introducing Everton loanee Moise Kean - but their equaliser was a gift. Martial knew very little about his own goal until he opened his eyes, turned around and saw the ball behind De Gea and nestling in the far side of the net.
</p><p>It was a mistake and mistakes are punished at this rarefied level, while rare chances to rectify them must be taken. Martial nearly atoned for his error at the other end of the pitch minutes later, meeting a Luke Shaw cross after the breakdown of a corner, but his header cleared the crossbar from six yards.
</p><p></p><p>But Paris could not make United pay. Mbapp&#233; was foiled time and again by the magnificent Tuanzebe and De Gea denied Neymar a goal from his first telling contribution. Otherwise, it was all United. It fell to Rashford to make the difference, only this time not from the penalty spot.
</p><p>Instead, he collected substitute Paul Pogba&#8217;s pass outside the penalty area, turned away from the attentions of Danilo Pereira and took aim. Thomas Tuchel is a known admirer of Rashford&#8217;s talents, though he will not have enjoyed the sight of the ball arcing out Navas&#8217; reach and into the far corner.&#160;</p><p>This may only have been an opening group game rather than a knock-out, but Solskjaer has his second famous night in Paris.</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>