--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/quibi-glitch-02.jpg?w=711 
title: > 
  Quibi is dead, reports say – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  Plagued with growth issues, Quibi, a short-form mobile-native video platform, is shutting down, according to multiple reports.Quibi did not respond to requests for comment from TechCrunch.For the YouTubes and Snaps of the world, producing mainstream content on a shoestring budget, Quibi wanted to be an HBO for smartphones.In its first few months, Quibi was downloaded 3.5 million times and had 1.5 million active users.The consumer video service disappointed on new paying customer numbers, and shares were down sharply yesterday after it released its earnings report. 
keywords: > 
  users, dead, reports, shutting, video, say, company, service, quibi, techcrunch, content, katzenberg, week, million 
date: 1603314836.115161 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary">Plagued with growth issues, Quibi, a short-form mobile-native video platform, is shutting down, according to <a href="https://www.theinformation.com/articles/quibi-to-shutter">multiple</a> <a href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/quibi-weighs-shutting-down-as-problems-mount-11603301946?mod=breakingnews">reports</a>. The startup, co-founded by Jeffrey Katzenberg and Meg Whitman, had raised nearly $2 billion in its lifetime as a private company. Quibi did not respond to requests for comment from TechCrunch.</p>
<p>The company&#8217;s prolific fundraising efforts spanned prominent institutions in private equity, venture capital and Hollywood, all betting on Katzenberg&#8217;s ability to deliver another hit. The startup&#8217;s backers included Alibaba, Madrone Capital Partners, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, as well as Disney, Sony Pictures, Viacom, WarnerMedia and MGM, among others.</p>
<p>Their pitch was highly produced bite-sized content, packed with Hollywood star power, and designed to be &#8220;mobile-first&#8221; entertainment. For the YouTubes and Snaps of the world, producing mainstream content on a shoestring budget, <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/quibi" target="_blank">Quibi </a> wanted to be an HBO for smartphones. Investors and pundits questioned the firm&#8217;s ability to monetize this vision, and it became clear soon after launch that the company had miscalculated.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>Rumors that Quibi was shutting down began early this week. <a href="https://www.theinformation.com/articles/katzenberg-tried-to-sell-quibi-content-raising-questions-about-services-future">The Information</a> wrote that Katzenberg has told people within the industry that the company might need to shut down, after unsuccessfully pitching itself as an acquisition to Apple, Facebook and Warner Media.</p>
<p>In its first few months, Quibi was downloaded 3.5 million times and had 1.5 million active users. While those figures aren&#8217;t too shabby, the company had to adjust its original projections, which put the service on a trajectory to reach 7 million users and $250 million in subscriber revenue in its first year. Admitting that the launch hadn&#8217;t gone as planned, Katzenberg <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/05/12/quibi-founder-jeffrey-katzenberg-blames-coronavirus-for-the-streaming-apps-challenges/">blamed the coronavirus for the streaming app&#8217;s challenges</a>.</p>
<p>The company expanded in Australia in August with a free ad-supported tier for users. It is unclear if the tweak in the business model brought Quibi success, or if the problems for the app had to do with the business model in the first place.</p>
<p>Netflix earnings from earlier this week suggest that the pandemic entertainment boom<a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/10/20/netflix-growth-q3/"> is slowing</a>. The consumer video service disappointed on new paying customer numbers, and shares were down sharply yesterday after it released its <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/10/20/heres-why-netflix-shares-are-off-after-reporting-earnings/">earnings report</a>. Those numbers also potentially showcase just how crowded the market for subscription video content has gotten in the past 12 months, with players like Apple, Disney, HBO and NBC each launching new services and collectively spending billions to acquire rights to past television hits.</p>
</div>