--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://img.bleacherreport.net/img/slides/photos/004/415/012/hi-res-064647a60795029a329f40ffff987c1c_crop_exact.jpg?w=1200&h=1200&q=75 
title: > 
  Ranking the 10 Worst NHL Unrestricted Free-Agent Contracts Since 2000 
description: > 
  0 of 8Tony Gutierrez/Associated PressIt's been almost a week since the 2020 NHL free-agent market opened.Whether those signings end up among the NHL's worst remains to be seen.A number of UFA signings, such as the Minnesota Wild inking Zach Parise and Ryan Suter or the Vancouver Canucks signing Loui Eriksson turned into expensive failures over the past 20 years.Here's our ranking of the 10 worst NHL free-agent contracts handed out since 2000.The following rankings do not account for players such as former Philadelphia Flyers goaltender Ilya Bryzgalov who were acquired via trade and subsequently signed with their new team before the UFA market opened. 
date: 1602766553.2681813 
--- 
0 of 8

Tony Gutierrez/Associated Press

It's been almost a week since the 2020 NHL free-agent market opened. A handful of unrestricted free agents, such as Alex Pietrangelo, Torey Krug and Jacob Markstrom, signed expensive long-term contracts despite a flattened salary cap and economic uncertainty generated by COVID-19 hanging over next season.

Whether those signings end up among the NHL's worst remains to be seen. A number of UFA signings, such as the Minnesota Wild inking Zach Parise and Ryan Suter or the Vancouver Canucks signing Loui Eriksson turned into expensive failures over the past 20 years. Often, those deals failed to pan out because the player was past his prime or overpaid based on one strong season.

Here's our ranking of the 10 worst NHL free-agent contracts handed out since 2000. They should all stand as cautionary tales for every general manager, warning of the folly of succumbing to auction fever during the opening days of free agency. The rankings are determined by contract, performance and effect upon a team's salary-cap payroll.

The following rankings do not account for players such as former Philadelphia Flyers goaltender Ilya Bryzgalov who were acquired via trade and subsequently signed with their new team before the UFA market opened.