--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.dailymail.co.uk/1s/2020/10/21/19/34675322-0-image-a-41_1603303993177.jpg 
title: > 
  Real Madrid vs Shakhtar Donetsk - Champions League: Live score, lineups and updates 
description: > 
  Tete dragged Marcelo one way and then back-heeled the ball the other way leaving Soloman to sweep it past Courtois.Zidane took four players off at half time on Saturday with Real Madrid 1-0 down in La Liga against Cadiz .Shakhtar had tired after their brilliant first half but there were still wide open spaces to be exploited in the Madrid half and Tete's stamina was holding out.That sounded strange coming from a Real Madrid player.It had been a strange game with Shakhtar brilliant and Madrid dozy, decadent and justifiably defeated. 
keywords: > 
  wide, shot, lineups, live, shakhtar, updates, real, madrid, half, way, league, soloman, ball, score, donetsk, tete, vs 
date: 1603308286.4123344 
--- 
<div><p class="mol-para-with-font">If Real Madrid and their powerful friends ever get their way, Shakhtar Donetsk might not get too many more chances to play them in big European games &#8211; they made the most of this opportunity stunning Zinedine Zidane's team with a 3-2 victory.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">With Israeli international Manor Soloman, Brazilian, Tete, and Ukrainian full-back Viktor Korniyenko, all just 21, and all outstanding, they went 3-0 up before the break and held on for a famous win.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Madrid picked up from where they left off last season against Manchester City, without Sergio Ramos and without too much of a clue how to contain their opponents.</p><p class="perform-player"></p> <br> <p class="mol-para-with-font">They were behind on 29 minutes when left-back Korniyenko ran at the heart of the home team's shaky defence. He first bypassed Militao's timid challenge, he was then quicker to ball than Raphael Varane, and when Marcelo dived in, he left Tete free to convert once Korniienko had poked the ball to him.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">The second goal came on 33 minutes and Marcelo's wing was the scene of the crime. Soloman cut in from the right with various players in white shirts spectating. His fierce left foot shot was pushed out by Courtois but only as far as Varane who prodded it past his own keeper.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Soloman got the third and again Madrid were training cones as Shakhtar stormed forward. The Israeli international started the move in his own half getting away from Rodrigo and Casemiro. He then fed Tete and continued his run. Tete dragged Marcelo one way and then back-heeled the ball the other way leaving Soloman to sweep it past Courtois. No one had tracked his lung-busting run.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Zidane took four players off at half time on Saturday with Real Madrid 1-0 down in La Liga against Cadiz . How would he react to this shambles? Rodrigo was the only change with the surprisingly rested Karim Benzema on.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Roared on by the injured Ramos from the stands they got a foothold back in the game on 53 minutes when Luka Modric thundered a shot from 25 yards out leaving Anatolii Trubin with no chance.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Vinicius came on for the hapless Luka Jovic who had sent a free header wide in the first half and still looks completely out of confidence. The Brazilian made an impact after just seconds on the pitch robbing Marlos Romero Bonfim and firing past Trubin to make it 3-2.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Madrid were still wide open at the other end and Tete should have made it 4-2 when he ran in behind Militao only for Courtois to save at the feet of the forward and save his team in the process.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Shakhtar had tired after their brilliant first half but there were still wide open spaces to be exploited in the Madrid half and Tete's stamina was holding out.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">It looked as if he had served the fourth up for Dentinho but he had began his sprint from the halfway line a fraction offside before squaring to his team-mate who lifted ball over Courtois.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">Fede Valverde thought he had scored an injury time equalizer but Vinicius had been offside and blocking the goalkeeper's view of the shot. VAR ruled it out.</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">'We improved in the second half but it was not enough,' said Modric. 'We were lacking confidence today.'</p><p class="mol-para-with-font">That sounded strange coming from a Real Madrid player. It had been a strange game with Shakhtar brilliant and Madrid dozy, decadent and justifiably defeated.</p><p></p></div>