--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/10/render-DSC02035.jpg?w=600 
title: > 
  Render raises $4.5M for its DevOps platform – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  “We spoke to a bunch of people after Disrupt, including Ashton Kutcher’s firm, because he was one of the judges,” Render co-founder and CEO Anurag Goel explained.And they just want to deploy this code really easily without having to worry about servers, or maintenance, or depending on DevOps teams — or, in many cases, hiring DevOps teams,” Goel said.Developers can then test their updates collaborative with QA or their product and sales teams in this environment.Every time you push a change to that branch or pull request, the environment is automatically updated, too.Once the pull request is closed or merger, Render destroys the environment automatically. 
keywords: > 
  devops, company, platform, environment, teams, techcrunch, request, raises, render, existing, environments, goel, 45m, round 
date: 1603386704.9681811 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary"><a href="https://render.com/">Render</a>, the <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2019/10/04/and-the-winner-of-startup-battlefield-at-disrupt-sf-2019-is-render/">winner</a> of our Disrupt SF 2019 Startup Battlefield, today announced that it has added another $4.5 million onto its existing seed funding round, bringing total investment into the company to $6.75 million.</p>
<p>The round was led by <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/general-catalyst-partners" target="_blank">General Catalyst, </a> with participation from previous investors South Park Commons Fund and a group of angels that includes Lee Fixel, Elad Gil and <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/github" target="_blank">GitHub </a> CTO (and former VP of Engineering at <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/heroku" target="_blank">Heroku) </a> Jason Warner.</p>
<p>The company, which describes itself as a &#8216;Zero DevOps alternative to AWS, Azure and Google Cloud,&#8217; originally raised a $2.25 million seed round in April 2019, but it got a lot of inbound interest after winning the Disrupt Battlefield. In the end, though, the team decided to simply raise more money from its existing investors.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>Current Render users include <a href="https://urldefense.proofpoint.com/v2/url?u=http-3A__Cypress.io&amp;d=DwMFaQ&amp;c=sWW_bEwW_mLyN3Kx2v57Q8e-CRbmiT9yOhqES_g_wVY&amp;r=pY1EfGoyE_coJDNMZ1AmPd5TNAeO8bytucUlfA44FiE&amp;m=HPWfwZFnXTx89hKO2GSPhjabZHeHVPK3_sGZVHXdzqI&amp;s=L9vf_CKZF0lBOrlDi5nWt8q7JvRuhqgjMnQ0fFXLBpc&amp;e=" target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer">Cypress.io</a>, Mux, Bloomscape, Zelos, 99designs and Stripe.</p>
<p>&#8220;We spoke to a bunch of people after Disrupt, including <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/person/ashton-kutcher" target="_blank">Ashton Kutcher&#8217;s </a> firm, because he was one of the judges,&#8221; Render co-founder and CEO Anurag Goel explained. &#8220;In the end, we decided that we would just raise more money from our existing investors because we like them and it helped us get a better deal from our existing investors. And they were all super interested in continuing to invest.&#8221;</p>
<p>What makes Render stand out is that it fulfills many of the promises of <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/heroku" target="_blank">Heroku </a> and maybe Google Cloud&#8217;s App Engine. You simply tell it what kind of service you are going to deploy and it handles the deployment and manages the infrastructure for you.</p>
<p>&#8220;Our customers are all people who are writing code. And they just want to deploy this code really easily without having to worry about servers, or maintenance, or depending on DevOps teams &#8212; or, in many cases, hiring DevOps teams,&#8221; Goel said. &#8220;DevOps engineers are extremely expensive to hire and extremely hard to find, especially good ones. Our goal is to eliminate all of that work that DevOps people do at every company, because it&#8217;s very similar at every company.&#8221;</p>
<p></p><p>One new feature the company is launching today is preview environments. You can think of them as disposable staging or development environments that developers can spin up to test their code &#8212; and Render promises that the testing environment will look the same as your production environment (or you can specify changes, too). Developers can then test their updates collaborative with QA or their product and sales teams in this environment.</p>
<p>Development teams on Render specify their infrastructure environments in a YAML file and turning on these new preview environments is as easy as setting a flag in that file.</p>
<p></p><p>&#8220;Once they do that, then for every pull request &#8211; because we&#8217;re integrated with GitHub and <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/gitlab-com" target="_blank">GitLab </a> &#8212; we automatically spin up a copy of that environment. That include that can include anything you have in production, or things like a Redis instance, or managed Postgres database, or Elasticsearch instance, or obviously API&#8217;s and web services and static sites,&#8221; Goel said. Every time you push a change to that branch or pull request, the environment is automatically updated, too. Once the pull request is closed or merger, Render destroys the environment automatically.</p>
<p>The company will use the new funding to grow its team and build out its service. The plan, Goel tells me, is to raise a larger Series A round next year.</p>
</div>