--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/GettyImages-142420587-1.jpg?w=600 
title: > 
  SAIF Partners rebrands as Elevation Capital, secures $400 million for its new India fund – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  SAIF Partners has raised $400 million for a new fund and rebranded the 18-year-old influential venture capital firm as it looks to back more early-stage startups in the world’s second largest internet market.The new fund is SAIF Partners’ seventh for early-stage startups in India.SAIF Partners started investing in Indian startups 18 years ago.Mukul Arora, a managing partner at SAIF Partners, said that the state of the Indian startup ecosystem has changed for the better in the past decade.Elevation Capital has over three dozen employees, with about two-dozen focused on the investment size. 
date: 1603154275.919586 
--- 
<div><p id="speakable-summary"><a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/saif-partners" target="_blank">SAIF Partners </a> has raised $400 million for a new fund and rebranded the 18-year-old influential venture capital firm as it looks to back more early-stage startups in the world&#8217;s second largest internet market.</p>
<p>The new fund is SAIF Partners&#8217; seventh for early-stage startups in India. Its previous two funds were each $350 million in size, and the firm today manages more than $2 billion in assets.</p>
<p><a href="http://www.saifpartners.com/">SAIF Partners</a> started investing in Indian startups 18 years ago. The firm began as a joint venture with SoftBank and its first high-profile investment was Sify. But the two firms&#8217; joint venture ended more than a decade ago, so the firm is now getting around to rebranding itself, Ravi Adusumalli, the managing partner of SAIF Partners, told TechCrunch in an interview.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>The firm &#8212; which has five unicorns in its portfolio, including <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2019/11/24/paytm-1-billion/">Paytm&#8217;s parent firm One97 Communications</a>, food delivery <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/04/06/indias-swiggy-raises-43m-to-expand-to-new-businesses/">startup Swiggy</a> and <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/09/02/indias-online-learning-platform-unacademy-raises-150-million-at-1-45-billion-valuation/">online learning platform Unacademy</a> &#8212; is rebranding itself as Elevation Capital.</p>
<p>&#8220;Elevation reflects our investment ethos and re-emphasises our commitment to the founders who help redefine our future. For our existing partners, it is a commitment of continued collaboration on our path-breaking journeys together. For our new partners, it is a promise to do all we can to achieve great heights together, from day one,&#8221; said Adusumalli.</p>
<p>SAIF Partners has backed more than 100 startups to date. The venture firm makes long-term bets on founders and backs young firms beginning their early years when they are raising their seed, pre-Series A and Series A financing rounds.</p>
<p>The venture firm invests in startups operating in a wide-range of sectors and plans to continue this strategy and add more areas of interest, said Deepak Gaur, a managing director at <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/elevation-capital-0e9d" target="_blank">Elevation Capital, </a> in an interview with TechCrunch.</p>
<p>&#8220;Enterprise SaaS is one area where we are spending a lot of resources,&#8221; he said. &#8220;We believe the time has come for this sector and we will see many global companies emerge from India.&#8221;</p>
<p>More than 15 startups in Elevation Capital&#8217;s portfolio are projected to become a unicorn in the next few years, according to Tracxn, a firm that tracks startups and investments in India. These include healthcare booking platform PharmEasy, app-based platform to <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2019/08/01/urbanclap-indias-largest-home-services-startup-raises-75m/">book home services Urban Company</a>, <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/09/15/amazon-backed-indian-insurtech-startup-acko-raises-60-million/">insurance tech startup Acko</a>, digital loan platform Capital Float, real estate property <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/04/16/indias-nobroker-raises-an-additional-30m-from-general-atlantic/">marketplace NoBroker</a> and online marketplace for gold Rupeek.</p>
<p>A number of SAIF Partners-backed startups, including IndiaMART, MakeMyTrip and Justdial, have become publicly listed companies, too.</p>
<p>Mukul Arora, a managing partner at SAIF Partners, said that the state of the Indian startup ecosystem has changed for the better in the past decade. &#8220;A few years ago, we were seeing many startups replicate a foreign company&#8217;s play in India. Today, we are seeing our ideas being replicated outside of the country. Someone is building a <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2019/06/13/facebook-meesho-first-indian-startup-investment/">Meesho</a> for Brazil,&#8221; he said.</p>
<p>The founders have also grown more sophisticated, said Mayank Khanduja. Elevation Capital has over three dozen employees, with about two-dozen focused on the investment size.</p>
<p>Elevation Capital&#8217;s new fund comes at a time when many established venture capital firms have also closed their new funds for India in recent months. In July, Sequoia Capital <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/07/06/sequoia-announces-1-35-billion-venture-and-growth-funds-for-india-and-southeast-asia/">announced two funds</a> &#8212; totaling $1.35 billion in size &#8212; for India. A month later, Lightspeed <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/08/17/lightspeed-raises-275-million-fund-for-india/">raised $275 million for its third Indian fund</a>. Accel late last year <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2019/12/02/accel-india-sixth-fund/">closed its sixth fund in India at $550 million</a>.</p>
<p>All of the LPs participating in Elevation Capital&#8217;s new fund, as was the case with previous funds, are U.S.-based, and the vast majority of them are nonprofits, said Adusumalli. Without disclosing any figures, he said the firm&#8217;s previous funds have performed very well.</p>
</div>