--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://d1i4t8bqe7zgj6.cloudfront.net/10-22-2020/t_6cd3f805baa548d496887ced278d4aef_name_20201022_Judiciary_ACB_vote_mp4_00_00_58_28_Still001.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Senate Judiciary Committee approves Trump’s choice for Supreme Court as Democrats boycott 
description: > 
  She will take her job on without agenda.”Graham also defended Barrett’s personal values after Democrats expressed concern during the confirmation hearings that her presence on the Supreme Court would result in further abortion restrictions.“It’s okay to be a complete person and be on the Supreme Court.Then, McConnell refused to consider Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland, the choice of President Barack Obama to fill the vacancy created by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February 2016.“It’s okay to be a complete person and be on the Supreme Court.Supreme Court justices stay for generations.” The full interview is scheduled to air Sunday. 
keywords: > 
  trumps, barretts, court, choice, supreme, boycott, barrett, vote, judiciary, graham, committee, law, democrats, senate, approves, judge, senators 
date: 1603380142.3080397 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;That was their choice,&#8221; committee chairman Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) said. &#8220;It will be my choice to vote the nominee out of committee. We&#8217;re not going to allow them to take over the committee.&#8221;</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said the full Senate will vote Monday on the Barrett nomination. Republicans, who hold a 53-to-47 majority, have the votes to install her on the court. If confirmed, she will be President Trump&#8217;s third justice on the court.</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In place of the Democratic senators Thursday morning, aides had placed 10 large portraits of people who benefited from the Affordable Care Act in their seats. Each person was someone that the Democratic senators spoke about at Barrett&#8217;s confirmation hearings last week, which senators centered around the issue of health care and the future of the Affordable Care Act.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Graham defended Barrett&#8217;s record ahead of the panel&#8217;s vote to advance her nomination.</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I&#8217;ve been here for a while, and I&#8217;ve never seen anyone more capable than Judge Barrett on the law,&#8221; he said, praising her &#8220;deep and wide understanding of the law."</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;And to all the people out there wondering about Judge Barrett I can tell you this: The law of Amy will not be applied to the case and controversy,&#8221; Graham added. &#8220;It will be the law as written in the Constitution or by statute or whatever regulatory body she is going to review. She will take her job on without agenda.&#8221;</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Graham also defended Barrett&#8217;s personal values after Democrats <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/2020/10/12/amy-coney-barrett-confirmation-hearing-live-updates/#link-UGQJ4UHEKZGDTBGDCTDQFDD3JI?itid=lk_inline_manual_15">expressed concern</a> during the confirmation hearings that her presence on the Supreme Court would result in further abortion restrictions. Both <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/senate-court-trump-barrett/2020/10/08/a82f4ace-0973-11eb-a166-dc429b380d10_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_15">liberals and conservatives have suggested, </a>based on her academic writings, personal beliefs and rulings as a judge, that she would support restricting or outright overturning the landmark abortion rights decision <i>Roe v. Wade</i> that guarantees a woman&#8217;s right to an abortion.</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;It&#8217;s okay to be a complete person and be on the Supreme Court. It&#8217;s okay to be pro-life,&#8221; Graham said in talking about the judge ahead of the vote. &#8220;She embraces the pro-life cause in her personal life, but she understands judging is not a cause, it is a process. She embraces her faith like millions of other Americans.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Democrats had boycotted to protest Republicans&#8217; swift action on the Barrett nomination.</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;There is no precedent &#8212; none &#8212; for confirming a Supreme Court justice this late in a presidential election year, with more than 40 million ballots already cast,&#8221; Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.), a member of the committee, said Wednesday in a statement.</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Democrats have lashed out at Republicans, calling them hypocrites, based on their actions in 2016 when the court had a vacancy.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Then, McConnell refused to consider Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland, the choice of President Barack Obama to fill the vacancy created by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February 2016.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell and Senate Republicans, including Graham, insisted that the president chosen in November of that year, eight months after Obama&#8217;s nomination, should fill the seat.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Republicans argue that the circumstances are different because Republicans hold the White House and the Senate majority.</p><p></p><p class="font-sm gray-dark font-bold"></p><p class="font-xxxs mr-xs o-0">Link copied</p><p class="dib pa-xs pr-xxs pb-xxs brad-50 bg-gray-lighter bg-hover-gray-light flex pointer" tabindex="0">link</p><h2 class="gray-darkest font-md2 font-md-ns font--headline mb-sm">Graham defends Barrett&#8217;s record: &#8216;The law of Amy will not be applied&#8217; </h2><p class="font-xxxs mb-sm"><p class="gray">By </p><p class="font-bold">Paulina Firozi</p></p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Judiciary Committee Chairman Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) defended Barrett&#8217;s record ahead of the panel&#8217;s vote to advance her nomination to the Supreme Court.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I&#8217;ve been here for a while, and I&#8217;ve never seen anyone more capable than Judge Barrett on the law,&#8221; he said, praising her &#8220;deep and wide understanding of the law."</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;And to all the people out there wondering about Judge Barrett I can tell you this: The law of Amy will not be applied to the case and controversy,&#8221; Graham added. &#8220;It will be the law as written in the Constitution or by statute or whatever regulatory body she is going to review. She will take her job on without agenda.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Graham also defended Barrett&#8217;s personal values after Democrats <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/elections/2020/10/12/amy-coney-barrett-confirmation-hearing-live-updates/#link-UGQJ4UHEKZGDTBGDCTDQFDD3JI?itid=lk_inline_manual_31" target="_blank">expressed concern</a> during the confirmation hearings that her presence on the Supreme Court would result in further abortion restrictions. Both <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/senate-court-trump-barrett/2020/10/08/a82f4ace-0973-11eb-a166-dc429b380d10_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_31">liberals and conservatives have suggested, </a>based on her academic writings, personal beliefs and rulings as a judge, that the judge would support restricting or outright overturning the landmark abortion rights decision <i>Roe v. Wade</i>.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;It&#8217;s okay to be a complete person and be on the Supreme Court. It&#8217;s okay to be pro-life,&#8221; Graham said in talking about the judge ahead of the vote. &#8220;She embraces the pro-life cause in her personal life, but she understands judging is not a cause, it is a process. She embraces her faith like millions of other Americans.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font-sm gray-dark font-bold"></p><p class="font-xxxs mr-xs o-0">Link copied</p><p class="dib pa-xs pr-xxs pb-xxs brad-50 bg-gray-lighter bg-hover-gray-light flex pointer" tabindex="0">link</p><h2 class="gray-darkest font-md2 font-md-ns font--headline mb-sm">Biden says he would create bipartisan commission to study court system &#8216;because it&#8217;s getting out of whack&#8217;</h2><p class="font-xxxs mb-sm"><p class="gray">By </p><p class="font-bold">John Wagner</p></p><p class="powa-wrapper"></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden said in an interview excerpt released Thursday that he would create a bipartisan commission to study the court system &#8220;because it&#8217;s getting out of whack.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Biden, who has avoided answering whether he would want to expand the Supreme Court by adding more justices, said in the interview with &#8220;60 Minutes&#8221; that the commission would look at that issue among others and make recommendations in 180 days.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;What I will do is I&#8217;ll put together a national commission of bipartisan commission of scholars, constitutional scholars, Democrats, Republicans, liberal, conservative,&#8221; Biden told interviewer Norah O&#8217;Donnell. &#8220;And I will ask them to, over 180 days, come back to me with recommendations as to how to reform the court system because it&#8217;s getting out of whack.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Pressed by O&#8217;Donnell about whether the study will focus on &#8220;court-packing,&#8221; Biden suggested it would be far broader and &#8220;go well beyond packing.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;The last thing we need to do is turn the Supreme Court into just a political football, whoever has the most votes gets whatever they want,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Presidents come and go. Supreme Court justices stay for generations.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The full interview is scheduled to air Sunday.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Biden has faced calls from many in his party&#8217;s left wing to support an expansion of the Supreme Court in response to the Republican push to confirm Judge Amy Coney Barrett&#8217;s nomination before the election.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font-sm gray-dark font-bold"></p><p class="font-xxxs mr-xs o-0">Link copied</p><p class="dib pa-xs pr-xxs pb-xxs brad-50 bg-gray-lighter bg-hover-gray-light flex pointer" tabindex="0">link</p><h2 class="gray-darkest font-md2 font-md-ns font--headline mb-sm">Republican-led committee approves Barrett nomination </h2><p class="font-xxxs mb-sm"><p class="gray">By </p><p class="font-bold">Seung Min Kim</p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Senate Judiciary Committee advanced the nomination of Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court with solely Republican support Thursday, as Democrats boycotted the vote in protest of what they viewed as an illegitimate confirmation process.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The vote was 12 to 0, with no Democrats present to officially register their objections. The Democratic senators, along with Senate Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (D-N.Y.), will hold a news conference later Thursday morning.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;That was their choice,&#8221; Committee Chairman Lindsey O. Graham (R-S.C.) said. &#8220;It will be my choice to vote the nominee out of committee. We&#8217;re not going to allow them to take over the committee.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Aides to the Democratic senators had placed 10 large portraits of people who benefited from the Affordable Care Act in their seats. Each person was someone whom the Democratic senators spoke about last week at Barrett&#8217;s confirmation hearing, which senators centered on the issue of health care and the future of Obamacare.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Democrats are sure to accuse Graham of breaking committee rules to hold the vote, since the panel generally requires two members of the minority to be present to conduct committee business.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But Republican aides said if a majority of the entire committee is present &#8212; which, on Thursday, it was &#8212; that means the Judiciary Committee can go ahead, under long-standing precedents. There have been more than a half-dozen instances, including under Democratic control, since 2006 when the committee has conducted business without two members of the minority being there.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font-sm gray-dark font-bold"></p><p class="font-xxxs mr-xs o-0">Link copied</p><p class="dib pa-xs pr-xxs pb-xxs brad-50 bg-gray-lighter bg-hover-gray-light flex pointer" tabindex="0">link</p><h2 class="gray-darkest font-md2 font-md-ns font--headline mb-sm">Democrats to boycott committee vote on Barrett nomination</h2><p class="font-xxxs mb-sm"><p class="gray">By </p><p class="font-bold">Donna Cassata</p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The 10 Democratic senators on the Judiciary Committee plan to boycott the session Thursday to protest Republicans&#8217; fast-tracking of the Barrett nomination.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;There is no precedent &#8212; none &#8212; for confirming a Supreme Court justice this late in a presidential election year, with more than 40 million ballots already cast,&#8221; Sen. Richard J. Durbin (D-Ill.), a member of the committee, said Wednesday in a statement.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Senate&#8217;s top Democrat, Minority Leader Charles E. Schumer (N.Y.), announced the boycott.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;We will not grant this process any further legitimacy by participating in a committee markup of this nomination just 12 days before the culmination of an election that is already underway,&#8221; Schumer said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Democrats have lashed out at Republicans, calling them hypocrites, based on their actions in 2016 when the court had a vacancy.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Then, McConnell refused to consider Supreme Court nominee Merrick Garland, the choice of President Barack Obama to fill the vacancy created by the death of Justice Antonin Scalia in February 2016.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">McConnell and Senate Republicans, including Graham, insisted that the president chosen in November of that year, eight months after Obama&#8217;s nomination, should fill the seat.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Republicans argue that the circumstances are different because Republicans hold the White House and the Senate majority.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p></div>