--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.usnews.com/dims4/USNEWS/823517e/2147483647/crop/2000x1333%2B0%2B0/resize/1200x1200%3E/quality/85/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmedia.beam.usnews.com%2Ffd%2F71%2F06ce01224d7eaffe910674abdffc%2F201021-stock.jpg 
title: > 
  Should You Buy Netflix (NFLX) Stock? 
description: > 
  Few companies have had a greater impact on how people consume entertainment than Netflix (ticker: NFLX), the world's premier streaming video service.At this stage of the business, subscriber growth is the name of the game for NFLX, and in the first half of 2020, subscriber growth was absolutely bonkers.Netflix added about 26 million subscribers in the first six months of the year alone – almost as many as the 28 million NFLX added in the entirety of 2019.It's no surprise that subscription-based business models rely on subscriber growth to increase revenue.Luckily for NFLX shareholders, Netflix is doing both, with subscription prices now at $12.99 a month for its standard plan, the most popular. 
keywords: > 
  streaming, growth, million, quarter, nflx, content, netflix, subscribers, buy, stock, company, subscriber 
date: 1603328408.4943066 
--- 
<div><p>Few companies have had a greater impact on how people consume entertainment than Netflix (ticker: <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/nflx-netflix-inc">NFLX</a>), the world's premier streaming video service. Having shown an ability to transform consumer behavior in a long-term, sustainable way, it's no surprise that Netflix's stock price has grown exponentially since its <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stock-market-news/slideshows/best-stocks-ipo-this-year">initial public offering</a> in 2002.</p><p>Netflix became a household name by mailing DVDs. In hindsight, it's easy to see how the company could have quickly become another bygone relic of business models past, a dinosaur of Silicon Valley relegated to Wharton case studies.</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p>Instead, Netflix casually pioneered and successfully navigated the pivot to streaming TV, delivering your favorite content in a matter of milliseconds, not business days.</p><p>Due to its first-mover advantage, Netflix quickly made mincemeat of Blockbuster. Today, it dominates the streaming TV market.</p><p>But does its early lead spell continued success for NFLX stock, or has the epic run-up of its share price over the years been too aggressive?</p><p>Here are some pros and cons to consider before buying Netflix stock:</p><p><b>Pro No. 1: 2020 subscriber growth. </b>At this stage of the business, subscriber growth is the name of the game for NFLX, and in the first half of 2020, subscriber growth was absolutely bonkers. </p><p id="text_lg" class="ad"></p><p>Netflix added about 26 million subscribers in the first six months of the year alone &#8211; almost as many as the 28 million NFLX added in the entirety of 2019. </p><p>It's no surprise that subscription-based business models rely on subscriber growth to increase revenue. Other than raising prices, that's the only way to grow the top line. Luckily for NFLX shareholders, Netflix is doing both, with subscription prices now at $12.99 a month for its standard plan, the most popular.</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p>That's up more than 60% from its introductory price of $7.99 in 2010, which stood stagnant until its first-ever increase of $1 per month in 2014.</p><p>Broadly speaking, <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/funds/slideshows/best-consumer-etfs-to-buy-now">consumers</a> are on board with that value proposition. Netflix now has more than 195 million paid subscribers worldwide.</p><p>More fundamentally, recurring revenue businesses like NFLX are revered by shareholders because, at their best, they pay once to acquire a customer and then enjoy an eternal stream of increasing future cash flows for their troubles.</p><p><b>Con No. 1: Subscriber growth deceleration moving forward. </b>One of Netflix's greatest virtues for investors also happens to be a double-edged sword. There can be hell to pay when quarterly subscriber growth doesn't meet the market's expectations, as we saw in the NFLX's third-quarter earnings report on Oct. 20.</p><p>Shares traded down after Netflix's earnings announcement, primarily due to the fact that Netflix added just 2.2 million subscribers in the third quarter, down precipitously from the 10.1 million subscribers it added in the quarter before. It's also lower compared with the year-ago quarter when the company added 6.8 million new subscribers.</p><p>It's not quite as bad as it sounds: Both the company and Wall Street knew to expect lower subscriber growth due to the so-called "pull forward" of subscribers that the pandemic brought about when everyone found themselves suddenly stuck at home in the first half of the year. Still, NFLX had projected 2.5 million net new subscribers for the third quarter in its last earnings report, and its inability to hit that low figure wasn't reassuring to investors. </p><p>Even revenue growth of 22.7% year over year wasn't enough to please the growth-obsessed investors that have sent NFLX shares up more than 50% year to date. </p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p>Earnings per share in the most recent quarter rose to $1.74 from $1.47 a year ago, but still underperformed the $2.14 per share expected by analysts.</p><p>So, while lockdowns have benefited Netflix for now, in the long term, investors are less sanguine that future membership figures will be able to keep up their prodigious growth rates.<b> </b></p><p><b>Pro No. 2: Expanding operating margins. </b>Recall the two core drivers of Netflix's business: subscriber growth and subscription cost. These figures govern the top line.</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p>But the way to hyper-charge profits is to increase operating efficiency. Enjoy the cost advantages of scale by spreading fixed costs over a larger and larger base of paying members.</p><p>This is the magical business model opportunity that software provides, and which some of the world's <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stock-market-news/slideshows/most-valuable-tech-companies-in-the-world">most valuable tech companies</a> &#8211; Microsoft Corp. (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/msft-microsoft-corporation">MSFT</a>), Alphabet (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/goog-alphabet-inc">GOOG</a>, <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/googl-alphabet-inc">GOOGL</a>), Facebook (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/fb-facebook-inc">FB</a>), Alibaba Group Holding (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/baba-alibaba-group-holding-ltd-adr">BABA</a>) and so on &#8211; have ridden to riches.</p><p>Netflix is doing the same, and its operating margins are increasing accordingly, growing from 18.7% in the third quarter of 2019 to 20.4% in the third quarter of 2020.</p><p><b>Con No. 2: Valuation. </b>In theory, Netflix should be easy to value: All you have to know is future cash flows and the rate of return you require. Excel can do the rest and spit out a fair current price for NFLX stock.</p><p>The problem merely lies in determining the precise value and timing of future cash flows. Small changes in inputs like membership growth, average revenue per user and margins can have massive implications on a company's current value. Netflix currently trades for roughly 60 times forward earnings &#8211; not cheap almost any way you look at it.</p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p><b>Pro No. 3: International expansion and strategy. </b>Netflix has conquered the North American market, with more than 73 million paid subscribers in the U.S. and Canada. Considering one Netflix account can be easily shared between multiple people, plus the fact that there are only around 128 million households in the U.S. to begin with, even the theoretical limit to Netflix's growth in the U.S. isn't too far off.</p><p>All the growth now lies abroad, where Netflix began an aggressive international expansion campaign in January 2016, entering more than 130 new countries in a crazy ambitious global rollout. That campaign has been a success by practically any measure: International subscribers have skyrocketed from 27.4 million to more than 122 million.</p><p>Efforts to "localize" content that is custom-made for certain regions, languages and cultures are paying off big time, and the company's targeted content strategy is complemented with varying subscription plans and prices. For instance, the company has gone so far as to add a lower-priced mobile-screen plan in India to help seize market share in the country of 1.3 billion.</p><p><b>Con No. 3: Increasing competition. </b>The first-mover advantage that put Netflix on the map and made a fortune for early shareholders has largely <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/dividends/slideshows/best-dividend-stocks-to-buy-this-year">paid its dividends</a> already. Competitors have taken notice and are now investing major dollars in megatrends like cord-cutting, the on-demand economy and the debundling of entertainment options.</p><p>Amazon.com's (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/amzn-amazoncom-inc">AMZN</a>) Prime Video, Hulu, HBO Go and YouTube have been Netflix's most notable rivals in recent years, and none are backing down anytime soon. The appearance of newer competitors in the streaming landscape like Walt Disney Co. (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/dis-walt-disney-company">DIS</a>), <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stock-market-news/slideshows/great-reasons-to-buy-apple-stock">Apple</a> (<a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stocks/aapl-apple-inc">AAPL</a>), WarnerMedia and NBCUniversal means that the streaming wars are quickly reaching a fever pitch, leaving Netflix little room for error.</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p>Disney+ in particular has already proven a formidable rival in the early innings of its young platform, with the streaming service racking up 60.5 million subscribers within the first nine months of its November 2019 launch.</p><p><b>Pro No. 4: Great management team, strong programming. </b>Reed Hastings has become one of the iconic CEOs of Silicon Valley and is universally regarded as an extremely competent executive. </p><p>As the company's founder, investors can be sure their interests are aligned with the CEO's. Chief Content Officer Ted Sarandos is the second key piece in this dynamic duo, having led content acquisition at Netflix since the year 2000. Hastings rewarded Sarandos in the second-quarter earnings announcement earlier this year, naming him co-CEO along with Hastings and ensuring the long-term leadership of the company is well-established.</p><p>Hastings has also built a company culture of radical transparency, high expectations and open feedback &#8211; a philosophy that seems to produce very nice results.</p><p>The aggressive move into creating its own content beginning in 2013 was essential: Original programming is indeed the only way for Netflix to differentiate itself in the long term.</p><p>Netflix quickly proved an ability to produce its own critically acclaimed content, which is no small feat. "House of Cards" led the way, and a dizzying pace of titles followed, including "Orange Is the New Black," "Black Mirror," "Narcos," "Stranger Things," "Ozark," "The Crown" and many more.</p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p>Crucially, Netflix has access to individualized content preferences for every subscriber, an extremely valuable data trove competitors simply can't match. NFLX, on the other hand, can drill down, discover tastes it knows it can monetize and strike the appropriate deals.</p><p>What companies have the financing and willpower to compete with that long term? Wads of money, the ability to take risks and a long-term vision are prerequisites, which narrows down the field of <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stock-market-news/slideshows/best-blue-chip-stocks-to-buy-this-year">blue-chip</a> competitors. Apple, Disney, and Amazon seem like the biggest threats on that basis.</p><p><b>Con No. 4: Content costs. </b>Of course, there's a flip side to the original content coin. You have to spend a ton of money up front to take a risk on something that might not land &#8211; something Netflix often won't know until months after it has filmed a show. Netflix minimizes that risk, but actors, directors and special effects professionals don't pay themselves. The growing number of streaming services means more competition to hire the best, and that means higher costs.</p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p>The company's reliance on debt financing isn't negligible, at $15.5 billion. Going forward, the company plans to use debt to keep financing its projects.</p><p>Given a pause on some new content production due to the pandemic, Netflix was forecasting negative free cash flow of $1 billion for 2020 just six months ago. Now, NFLX expects positive free cash flow of $2 billion for the full year, partially driven by the huge surge in net subscriber additions. That's far better than the negative $3.3 billion free cash flow in 2019.</p><p>Still, with more and more competitors entering the fray, demand is driving up costs and making previously doable content unreasonable. Most recently, Netflix acted to fill the content gap left by the tried-and-true trio of "The Office," "Friends" and "Parks and Recreation," spending an undisclosed sum &#8211; but reportedly well above $500 million &#8211; to secure exclusive rights to "Seinfeld" for five years starting in 2021.</p><p id="ad" class="ad"></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Bottom Line</h3></p><p>In the end, Netflix is a well-run, fast-growing business with some enviable <a href="https://money.usnews.com/investing/stock-market-news/slideshows/stocks-expanding-their-competitive-advantages">advantages</a> over rivals. But shares have always traded at rich valuations, and its debt-fueled strategy is facing its first truly major external threats right now. Netflix has operated more or less undisturbed for years, but the loss of key content and the entry of more heavyweights into the game indicate all but the most risk-tolerant investors should wait for a lower market cap than $231 billion before placing bets.<br></p></div>