--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/cricket/2020/10/20/1910_BOYCOTT_LEAD_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqVzuuqpFlyLIwiB6NTmJwfSM8Sv5nIxQonD2k-JCC_U.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Sir Geoffrey Boycott at 80: On not believing in God, his knighthood and the BBC sacrificing 'quality for equality' 
description: > 
  Reaching 80 is a moment in time, an opportunity to look back on a long life of “highs and valleys”, as he puts it.If he says he will call at 10am, then the phone rings at 10am — not a minute earlier or later.We live to be 60, 70 or 80 if we are lucky, and that goes very quickly."It teaches you to live life to the full because there might come a time when you are not well enough to do it.“My biggest mistake is not marrying Rachael earlier and having two more daughters like my Emma. 
keywords: > 
  80, rachael, equality, cricket, quality, bbc, think, geoffrey, sacrificing, life, sir, believing, best, dont, having, god, live, earlier, knighthood, boycott 
date: 1603270771.88461 
--- 
<div><p>Reaching 80 is a moment in time, an opportunity to look back on a long life of &#8220;highs and valleys&#8221;, as he puts it. Chatting for more than an hour on Zoom &#8212;&#160;the call is set up by Rachael because her husband, by his own admission, has no idea about technology &#8212;&#160;he talks with remarkable candour about the lessons learned from his serious illnesses, his lack of religious faith, the regret at not marrying Rachael earlier and having two more daughters. He also reveals the hurt his family endured from the <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/cricket/2019/10/01/sir-geoffrey-boycott-deserves-knighthood-now-have-mike-brearley/">criticism of his knighthood</a> caused by his &#8220;worst nightmare&#8221; conviction for assault in France, and &#8212; as if to prove that his cussedness has not entirely disappeared &#8212;&#160;is at his spiky best when analysing the <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/cricket/2020/08/03/starved-cricket-lockdown-has-given-new-life-sports-great-literature/">plight of the BBC</a> and Test cricket.</p>
<h3>'Being told you're dying takes the wind out of you'</h3>
<p>Sir Geoffrey gave off an air of invincibility as a player which has hardly faded since he made the transition to the media, and he still looks in impressive shape &#8212;&#160;strong and surprisingly stocky for a man who has flirted with death on at least two occasions, and many more if you include his fire and brimstone battles with some of the world's best fast bowlers over a cricket career that spanned three decades.</p>
<p>&#8220;I walk a mile-and-a-half briskly about three times a week on my running machine and I hit some golf balls in the garden, so yeah, I&#8217;m okay. I don't have Covid, either," he says. "I can't do batting anymore &#8212; I miss that. Reaching 80 is not as good as batting. It was the best thing I ever did."</p>
<p>On Monday, he took delivery of a birthday cake from his colleagues at Telegraph Sport. It was shaped as a cricket bat with the Hunts County logo, the one he used for a decade at his peak. The detail is important because in 20 years of working for Telegraph Sport, his attention to the finer points of cricket has never wavered. Whenever we sit down to write his latest column, he has copious handwritten notes and knows exactly what he is going to say. When you check his stats, they are always correct. If he says he will call at 10am, then the phone rings at 10am &#8212;&#160;not a minute earlier or later.</p>
<p>He remains a great judge of a batsman&#8217;s technique despite the changes in cricket from his day. But he has mellowed, too, a legacy of his cancer and health issues.</p>
<p>&#8220;Both were life-threatening. I had the quadruple [heart] bypass at 78 - hell, most people don&#8217;t get to be 78. And cancer of the tongue. When [the consultant] said to me, &#8216;If you don&#8217;t do anything you will be dead in three months', that takes the wind out of your sails." Did the diagnosis change him? "In retrospect you can&#8217;t change what you are. The characteristics that make you, the good and bad, will be there forever. What does happen is I have been much more aware of people having illnesses. When you are a young kid going to university aged 19 you think &#8216;I have loads of time to do everything.&#8217; You haven&#8217;t. We live to be 60, 70 or 80 if we are lucky, and that goes very quickly.</p>
<p>"It teaches you to live life to the full because there might come a time when you are not well enough to do it. I get cross, mad and angry like I always did but I get over it quicker. I think, &#8216;Hell, does it really matter?&#8217;&#8221;</p>
<p>Sir Geoffrey insists he is resolutely focused on the future, but even this man &#8212;&#160;whose steel-clad self-belief elevated him into the pantheon of England's greatest batters &#8212; admits to regrets. &#8220;I try not to look back too much because it is history. But when I hear people say, &#8216;I would have lived my life just the same&#8217;, then I think they are a liar or an idiot. All of us should learn from experience.</p>
<p>&#8220;My biggest mistake is not marrying Rachael earlier and having two more daughters like my Emma. But I always just wanted to play cricket and do the best I could. If I missed out on other things, which I probably did, then I must live with it."</p>
<h3>'I want my ashes thrown in the North Sea'</h3>
</div>