--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/men/2020/09/30/David-Attenenborough-Toby-Coulson-Telegraph_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqGpeVTekjyho69sTyFjLqRz9hR-i8KuEg9RemWEL9Jc.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Sir David Attenborough: 'I've been talking about this for 30 years... and nobody’s taken any notice' 
description: > 
  His wife Jane died in 1997, after suffering a brain haemorrhage when he was filming in New Zealand.His son is Dr Robert Attenborough, a professor of biological anthropology at Cambridge University.He lives simply, in the house he has had for years; he has no iPhone or email, he uses the post, and occasionally a computer.He had a knee operation six years ago, which enabled him to continue working, but he doesn’t exercise.I think it’s important that people should have their voices heard, that’s for sure, but I think breaking the law can have a deleterious effect.’ 
date: 1603090909.258398 
--- 
<div><p>Attenborough lives with his daughter, Susan, formerly a teacher. His wife Jane died in 1997, after suffering a brain haemorrhage when he was filming in New Zealand. He has never remarried. His son is Dr Robert Attenborough, a professor of biological anthropology at Cambridge University.</p>
<p>He lives simply, in the house he has had for years; he has no iPhone or email, he uses the post, and occasionally a computer. He had a knee operation six years ago, which&#160;enabled him to continue working, but he doesn&#8217;t exercise. &#8216;I&#8217;ve never taken exercise in my life&#8217;. And he doesn&#8217;t eat meat. &#8216;I haven&#8217;t eaten meat in a long time. It just went away &#8211; I can&#8217;t explain it. It wasn&#8217;t that I made a sacrifice or anything &#8211; for some reason I just went off it decades ago.&#8217; Perhaps it was the revelation that, as mentioned in the book, 60 per cent of mammals in the world are livestock, and we consume 50 billion chickens a year &#8211; most of which are fed on soy-based feed derived from deforested land.</p>
<p>The film and book are at their most brutal when he outlines what could be in store for&#160;someone born today, at our current rate of progress: the rain forest would turn&#160;into a dry savannah, fish populations would crash, the methane produced by frozen soil thawing would accelerate climate change and large parts of the planet would become uninhabitable.&#160;&#160;But, he says now: &#8216;I do believe that things are changing, and it is young people who are most vigorous and vocal at the moment &#8211; young people who will get older and take direct action, and the fact that they are as energised and concerned as they are is very good news.&#8217;</p>
<p>He has nothing but good things to say about Greta Thunberg, who he spent some time with last year. &#8216;I think she&#8217;s absolutely extraordinary, and she&#8217;s very realistic about the issues; she is very modest and the first to say, we must listen to the science &#8211; don&#8217;t listen to me, I&#8217;m not a scientist, but it is my future nonetheless. And she says this with such power, and with such clarity that she is a very powerful voice, and that voice will last and resonate for much longer than mine, because she&#8217;s 75 years younger.&#8217;</p>
<p>He is keen that protests should be heard, but is ambivalent about Extinction Rebellion. &#8216;The question is, are they putting people off by disturbing lives? I think it&#8217;s important that people should have their voices heard, that&#8217;s for sure, but I think breaking the law can have a deleterious effect.&#8217;</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
</div>