--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/GFUG3BAOIII6XNAERUPGOXWHAE.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Supreme Court split in Pa. election case raises questions about how a Justice Barrett would rule 
description: > 
  ADAD“This cake is baked as far as a future Coney Barrett justice of the Supreme Court is concerned,” Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), a member of the Judiciary Committee, said Tuesday.Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Tuesday that the Senate will vote to confirm Barrett on Monday, meaning that her first full day as a Supreme Court justice could be Tuesday, Oct. 27.The Supreme Court will probably be hearing emergency petitions up to Election Day.ADIf and when election cases come before a Justice Barrett, legal experts say, she will probably not have to recuse herself from those involving Trump.Voting rights and Democratic groups worried that the Supreme Court order favoring Pennsylvania Democrats on Monday night carried ominous signs for the future. 
keywords: > 
  supreme, pa, split, court, justices, barrett, cases, confirmation, president, case, rule, justice, questions, election, raises, state 
date: 1603237238.514651 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The order was a temporary reprieve for Democrats who fought to ensure those ballots would be tallied. But the justices had split 4-to-4 on the stay request, with all of the Republican appointees on the court except Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. saying they would have sided with the GOP in Pennsylvania to grant the delay.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;This cake is baked as far as a future Coney Barrett justice of the Supreme Court is concerned,&#8221; Sen. Richard Blumenthal (D-Conn.), a member of the Judiciary Committee, said Tuesday. &#8220;There is no reason to think she would not be the fifth vote in this kind of Pennsylvania case, throwing out millions and millions of ballots.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Republicans, in defending Barrett&#8217;s judicial independence, have pointed to numerous examples in which Supreme Court justices have ruled on cases directly involving the president who nominated them, including on election-related disputes.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Calls for recusal, however, are louder for Barrett not only because of the proximity of her confirmation to Nov. 3, but also because President Trump has so explicitly tied her and the need for nine justices on the court to hear election cases that could decide whether he stays in office.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The president tempered those comments somewhat in an NBC News town hall last week, when he said that he does not believe Barrett &#8220;has any conflict at all&#8221; and that &#8220;she would be able to rule either for me or against me.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Believe it or not, I never asked her about it,&#8221; Trump said of his meeting with Barrett, referring to election-related cases. &#8220;I never talked about it; I didn&#8217;t talk any of the obvious things that you could talk about. And I think a lot of people in my position might, but in speaking to a lot of very brilliant people, and people that do this for a living, they say it&#8217;s better not to talk.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Under questioning from Democrats at her confirmation hearings, Barrett said she would not commit to recusal on any case because it would require not only an individual evaluation, but also consultation with other justices. She said she has made no commitment to anyone on how she would rule.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I certainly hope that all members of the committee have more confidence in my integrity than to think that I would allow myself to be used as a pawn to decide this election for the American people,&#8221; Barrett told senators on the Judiciary Committee last week.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell (R-Ky.) said Tuesday that the Senate will vote to confirm Barrett on Monday, meaning that her first full day as a Supreme Court justice could be Tuesday, Oct. 27. The most recently confirmed justice, Brett M. Kavanaugh, was sworn in the same day as his confirmation vote just over two years ago.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Supreme Court will probably be hearing emergency petitions up to Election Day. Two cases already are at the court, although both could be decided before Barrett joins.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">One comes from Alabama, where state officials want to prevent some counties from offering curbside voting. But the more important is from the battleground state of Wisconsin.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A federal district judge approved a request from Democrats and civil rights groups to require election officials to count mail-in ballots that were postmarked by Election Day but not received until six days later. But a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit stayed the order, saying it was up to state officials to make that decision.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">That case is different from the one in Pennsylvania, and Roberts has joined his fellow conservatives in previous cases to keep the federal judiciary from granting exceptions to state laws because of the coronavirus pandemic. And there&#8217;s another difference: a tie in the Wisconsin case would mean that the 7th Circuit&#8217;s panel decision would remain in place.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">If and when election cases come before a Justice Barrett, legal experts say, she will probably not have to recuse herself from those involving Trump. Still, they acknowledge that her decision &#8212; and any public perceptions of a conflict of interest &#8212; is greatly complicated by a president known for saying the quiet part out loud.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Supreme Court justices make their own recusal decisions, based on whether they have a personal stake in the case or their impartiality might be reasonably questioned and with the knowledge there cannot be a substitute if they sit it out.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;There&#8217;s a risk that it reduces the number of judges who can hear these cases,&#8221; said Derek Muller, a law professor at the University of Iowa. &#8220;It turns what should be a legal question into a political-pressure question.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Jonathan Adler, a professor at the Case Western Reserve University School of Law, said he is leaning on the side of Barrett not having to recuse, but &#8220;it&#8217;s a much different and more difficult call largely because of the sorts of comments that the president made.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;As in so many other ways, the current president engaged in norm-breaking behavior that pushes the boundaries of our traditional understanding,&#8221; Adler said. Trump&#8217;s remarks tying Barrett&#8217;s confirmation to election cases, Adler added, are an example of comments that are &#8220;sufficiently prominent and sufficiently amplified that they might create the sort of appearance that the recusal rules are in part designed to address.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Michael Luttig, who served on the U.S. Court of Appeals until 2006, argued in a recent <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2020/10/17/amy-coney-barrett-recuse-2020-election-cases-caperton-v-massey-coal-co/?itid=lk_inline_manual_35" target="_self">Washington Post opinion piece</a> that a 2009 Supreme Court case, <i>Caperton v. A.T. Massey Coal Co</i>., may well require Barrett to recuse, or should at least counsel her decision to do so.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;The question for Barrett, if it arises, will not be whether she personally believes she can be fair in deciding an election case but, rather, whether a reasonable person would conclude that her impartiality would be inescapably overborne by the flood of influences brought to bear on her,&#8221; Luttig wrote.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Voting rights and Democratic groups worried that the Supreme Court order favoring Pennsylvania Democrats on Monday night carried ominous signs for the future.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The court&#8217;s four most conservative justices &#8212; Clarence Thomas, Samuel A. Alito Jr., Neil M. Gorsuch and Kavanaugh &#8212; would have overridden the state Supreme Court, even though it was interpreting the state Constitution&#8217;s guarantee of free and open elections. There is reason to believe, based on her decisions and writings, that Barrett is closer in ideology to those justices than to Roberts.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;My immediate reaction to the 4-4 tie was that it is bad news long-term for the protection of the constitutional right to vote,&#8221; said Joshua A. Douglas, an election law expert at the University of Kentucky. &#8220;Many news organizations were reporting it as a major Democratic &#8216;win.&#8217; But the signals here are concerning: A new Justice Barrett will probably break the tie and join her fellow conservative justices, though of course we can&#8217;t know for sure. That would mean that the court is open to claims from state supreme courts under state constitutions.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Barrett will return to Capitol Hill on Wednesday to continue her round-robin meetings with Republican senators, whose support she has mostly locked up ahead of her confirmation vote next week. Her nomination will be advanced out of the Judiciary Committee on Thursday.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">There is little suspense left on her confirmation, although one question mark remains in Sen. Lisa Murkowski (Alaska), one of two Republican senators who opposed proceeding with Barrett&#8217;s confirmation process so close to an election.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But unlike Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine), Murkowski has not explicitly said whether she would be a &#8220;no&#8221; vote on Barrett solely on procedural grounds. Murkowski on Tuesday said only that she would meet with Barrett later, which an aide clarified was sometime this week.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p></div>