--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/M66ZEAASNQI6XLLPG3ET43UU7M.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Supreme Court denies GOP request to stop extended deadline for mail-in ballots in Pennsylvania, a key state for Trump 
description: > 
  The Supreme Court had considered the Republican request for nearly two weeks, indicating that an attempt at compromise might have failed.The Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled in Democrats’ favor last month on a number of mail-voting rules: permitting voters to turn in ballots via drop box in addition to using the U.S.Pennsylvania’s Republican legislators and the state GOP asked the U.S. Supreme Court to weigh in only on the ruling pushing back the deadline for mail ballots to arrive.“The Pennsylvania Supreme Court’s decision protected that right and brought much needed clarity to the exigent circumstances surrounding a global pandemic,” Shapiro wrote.That makes the tie vote surprising, since it was the court’s conservatives who were ready to stop the state court. 
date: 1603160026.4692705 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">It also showed a precariously balanced Supreme Court, which has only eight members after the death last month of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, and the potential importance of President Trump&#8217;s nominee to replace her, Judge Amy Coney Barrett.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The court was tied on the Republican request, which means the effort failed.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The court&#8217;s four most conservative justices &#8212; Clarence Thomas, Samuel A. Alito Jr., Neil M. Gorsuch and Brett M. Kavanaugh &#8212; said they would have granted the stay.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">But that takes five votes, which means Chief Justice John G. Roberts Jr. sided with liberal Justices Stephen G. Breyer, Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Neither side explained its reasoning, which often is the case with emergency requests. But the outcome underscored the decisive role Barrett could play if she is confirmed by the Republican-controlled Senate &#8212; with a vote there expected as soon as next week. Trump has said he wants his new nominee on the court in case the court is split on litigation arising from the election.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">That, in turn, has prompted calls from Democrats that Barrett pledge to recuse herself from election cases. She declined to say at her confirmation hearings last week what she would do if faced with such a decision.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md "><b></b>The Supreme Court had considered the Republican request for nearly two weeks, indicating that an attempt at compromise might have failed.</p><p></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Monday&#8217;s order was the latest in a string of election procedure battles waged in the states between Democrats and Republicans. Previously <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/courts_law/supreme-court-south-carolina-mail-ballots/2020/10/05/68aedd26-0769-11eb-9be6-cf25fb429f1a_story.html?itid=lk_inline_manual_17" title="www.washingtonpost.com">the court sided with South Carolina Republicans</a> and said most mail-in ballots there must contain a witness&#8217;s signature, something federal courts had said should be waived because of the <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/coronavirus/?itid=lk_inline_manual_17" target="_blank" class="contextual_link">coronavirus</a> pandemic.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The litigation is often over seemingly small details &#8212; but ones that could make a difference in close races.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Pennsylvania has particular significance because it is crucial to Trump&#8217;s reelection fortunes. He defeated Hillary Clinton there in 2016 by 44,000 votes, or less than one&#8201;percentage point.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The Pennsylvania Supreme Court ruled in Democrats&#8217; favor last month on a number of mail-voting rules: permitting voters to turn in ballots via drop box in addition to using the U.S. Postal Service; allowing ballots to be returned up to three days after Election Day; and blocking a Republican effort to allow partisan poll watchers to be stationed in counties where they do not live.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Pennsylvania&#8217;s Republican legislators and the state GOP asked the U.S. Supreme Court to weigh in only on the ruling pushing back the deadline for mail ballots to arrive. The state court said such ballots must be counted if they are postmarked by Nov. 3 &#8212; and even if no postmark is discernible &#8220;unless a preponderance of the evidence&#8221; shows that the ballots were mailed after Election Day.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;In a year where there is a very real possibility that the final presidential election result hinges on Pennsylvania, the new rules imposed by the decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania (a body elected in partisan elections) could destroy the American public&#8217;s confidence in the electoral system as a whole,&#8221; said the stay request filed by the Republican leaders.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The state supreme court decision was based on a clause in the commonwealth&#8217;s constitution mandating that &#8220;all aspects of the electoral process in Pennsylvania be open and unrestricted so as not to disenfranchise Pennsylvania voters,&#8221; the state&#8217;s Democratic attorney general, Josh Shapiro, said in defending the state court decision.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;The Pennsylvania Supreme Court&#8217;s decision protected that right and brought much needed clarity to the exigent circumstances surrounding a global pandemic,&#8221; Shapiro wrote. &#8220;In doing so, that court ensured that Pennsylvanians would not be forced to choose between exercising their right to vote and protecting their health.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">He rejected Republicans&#8217; claim that the decision essentially extended the election beyond Election Day and said it was a key aspect of federalism that states decide how to run their elections.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Pennsylvania lawmakers also said the decision takes away the power of legislatures to set election rules. The changes are tied to challenges of the pandemic, they said, but &#8220;the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania&#8217;s own special master found that COVID-19 is not likely to disrupt the November General Election ballot receipt deadline.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">While the U.S. Supreme Court is often skeptical of federal judges changing rules in an election, it would have been rare for the court to intervene when a state court was interpreting the state&#8217;s constitution and laws. That makes the tie vote surprising, since it was the court&#8217;s conservatives who were ready to stop the state court.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">A coalition of Republican lawyers and officials from previous administrations had warned the court in an amicus brief that would be a mistake.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">They said that a denial of the stay request &#8220;by the broadest majority possible will benefit this court, our country, and its precious tradition of the peaceful retention or transfer of power.&#8221; Former Pennsylvania governor Tom Ridge (R) was among those who signed the brief.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The cases are <i>Scarnati v. Boockvar</i> and <i>Republican Party v. Boockvar</i>.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p></div>