--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/QAC3NSCLNEI6VFT34B2NGAWH2Q.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Tennessee voters were challenged at the polls for wearing Black Lives Matter and ‘I Can’t Breathe’ shirts, election official says 
description: > 
  We’re doing everything we can so that every voter in Shelby County can exercise their right,” Thompson said.ADThe poll worker “of his own volition” was seen telling people late last week that they had to turn their T-shirt or mask inside out if it said “Black Lives Matter,” according to Thompson.A separate poll worker who worked the check-in table and was believed to be friends with the fired poll worker did not show up for work the next day, Thompson said.ADThe incident occurred as Tennessee residents across the state have set records for early voting since the polls opened last Wednesday.Election officials in Shelby County had previously discussed slogans as part of the county’s broader plan to counteract any potential voter intimidation or voter suppression, Thompson said. 
keywords: > 
  shirts, poll, matter, worker, voting, polls, voter, official, county, election, shelby, lives, thompson, wearing, challenged, candidate, tennessee, voters 
date: 1603248253.5775282 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;Our voters are not going to be intimidated. We&#8217;re doing everything we can so that every voter in Shelby County can exercise their right,&#8221; Thompson said.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The poll worker &#8220;of his own volition&#8221; was seen telling people late last week that they had to turn their T-shirt or mask inside out if it said &#8220;Black Lives Matter,&#8221; according to Thompson. A separate poll worker who worked the check-in table and was believed to be friends with the fired poll worker did not show up for work the next day, Thompson said.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The incident occurred as Tennessee residents across the state<a href="https://wcyb.com/news/local/tennessee-early-voting-turnout-shatters-records" target="_blank"> have set records for early voting</a> since the polls opened last Wednesday. In Shelby County, at least 132,000 people have cast early ballots as of Tuesday &#8212; nearly double the number of the first five days of early voting in 2016, according to data from the Tennessee secretary of state.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Thompson said county officials learned of the incident after a witness reported it to the election commission.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">When county officials reminded the poll worker, who has not been identified, of the training that all poll workers undergo &#8212; and which this year specifically addressed that racial justice slogans are permitted at the polls &#8212; he pushed back, Thompson said. She described the poll worker as expressing his belief that Black Lives Matter and the slogan &#8220;I Can&#8217;t Breathe&#8221; were &#8220;political statements connected to the Democratic Party.&#8221; </p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The issue garnered more attention after Antonio Parkinson, a Democratic member of the Tennessee legislature, referred to the incident on his Facebook page and praised the Shelby County Election Commission for firing the poll worker.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Electioneering, or engaging in activity that supports a particular candidate or party, is broadly prohibited at the polls, though specific rules about what voters can say, wear or display while as they cast their ballots vary by state.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Tennessee&#8217;s electioneering laws bar campaign materials that support a specific political party or any candidate or position that appears on the ballot. Election officials in Shelby County had previously discussed slogans as part of the county&#8217;s broader plan to counteract any potential voter intimidation or voter suppression, Thompson said.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Black Lives Matter is permissible, as it does not reflect a specific party or candidate, but a person wearing a &#8220;Make America Great Again&#8221; shirt would have to cover it up before voting since the slogan is known to be connected directly to a candidate who appears on the November ballot, Thompson said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Kristen Clarke, the president of the National Lawyers&#8217; Committee for Civil Rights Under Law, praised the county&#8217;s swift action in firing the poll worker and called his actions a form of voter suppression.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;It was targeting a voter who merely opposed racial injustice,&#8221; Clarke told The Post. &#8220;It&#8217;s something to keep an eye on given the racially charged moment we&#8217;re in.&#8221; </p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Clarke echoed Thompson&#8217;s explanation of Tennessee&#8217;s electioneering laws, noting that voters are still free to express personal views when they vote as long as they do not pertain to individuals or questions on the ballot.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;People are free to wear T-shirts saying &#8216;Stay in school&#8217; or &#8216;Smoking is bad for your health.&#8217; There can be a range of messages. And there&#8217;s nothing in Tennessee law that would ban a voter from communicating support for racial justice,&#8221; she said.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The highly polarized political climate and a high-stakes election have put both Republicans and Democrats on alert over election integrity. Thompson said that last week&#8217;s incident in Memphis was the first of which she was aware. A spokeswoman with the American Civil Liberties Union of Tennessee said the group is monitoring closely for election interference but have not received complaints like the incident in Memphis.</p></div>