--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/s3fs-public/thumbnails/image/2020/06/08/08/me-centre-juliette-left-and-kieran-right-at-nungnung-waterfall.jpeg 
title: > 
  That summer: Learning to love life again in Bali in 2016 
description: > 
  According to healthline, “anorexia often stems from a distorted body image, which may result from emotional trauma, depression or anxiety.The idea of exposing my body, which by this point felt so damaged and starved – punished, even – to a bunch of carefree twenty-somethings scared the shit out of me.By the time I left Bali, almost four weeks after arriving, I felt like a different person in many ways.But the island’s sense of freedom, hope and enchantment enabled me to see what life without anorexia could be.Over that simple plate of nasi goreng, I fell in love with life again – and, to some extent, food too. 
date: 1603109093.0491292 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p class="sc-qPyvj qchtz">I</p><p> never thought I&#8217;d be indebted to a plate of fried rice, but that&#8217;s what I find myself thinking about whenever someone asks what or who the turning point was in my four-year fight with <a href="/topic/anorexia" class="body-link">anorexia</a>. </p><p>It was a nasi goreng to be precise, which literally translates as &#8220;fried rice&#8221; in both Indonesian and Malay, and which I ate while backpacking around <a href="/topic/Bali" class="body-link">Bali</a> to celebrate finishing university. There are many things I could say about that seemingly average meal of greasy rice, diced vegetables and a questionable fried egg. The most significant, though, is that it was the first time in 912 days that I&#8217;d eaten a carbohydrate (without being drunk or making myself violently sick afterwards). </p><p></p><p>When I look back at that solo dinner, I can&#8217;t be sure what drove me to actually eat it: what made me pick that particular dish, in that particular battered beach caf&#233;, on a bustling back alley of Seminyak &#8211; one of the island&#8217;s biggest, and most beautiful, tourist hotspots.</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>All I know is that it was the first time in a very long time that I&#8217;d been able to sit, eat and think about what life after my <a href="/topic/eating-disorder" class="body-link">eating disorder</a> might look like. It helped that the food was actually pretty good, and that I was surrounded by one of the world&#8217;s most photogenic backdrops.</p><p></p><p></p><p>I was diagnosed with anorexia and bulimia, as well as depression, when I was 19 years old. Two relatives of mine, one of whom I was extremely close to, both unexpectedly died in quick succession. Almost immediately, various doctors and therapists all agreed that I&#8217;d tried to take back the feeling of control in my life by implementing a new, dysfunctional routine: disordered eating. </p><p>According to healthline, &#8220;anorexia often stems from a distorted body image, which may result from emotional trauma, depression or anxiety. Some people may view extreme dieting or weight loss as a way to regain control in their lives.&#8221;</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>By the time that two friends I&#8217;d gone to university with suggested we head to Bali after graduation, I was an anorexic pro. Although I was receiving treatment from various doctors and had supposedly been &#8220;on the mend&#8221; for months, I was still relying heavily on various unhealthy habits to get me through the day &#8211; not eating very much and purging whatever I did being an integral part. </p><p>When I decided to head out to the Indonesian island four days before my friends for a spot of solo travelling, my parents were suspicious, scared even. I think they knew why I wanted to be alone &#8211; that I was really just trying to escape them and their desperation for me to be &#8220;me&#8221; again. I felt bad, but I needed some space. </p><p>I&#8217;ll never forget the thrill of booking that plane ticket, of staring endlessly at maps and images of Kuta (the nearest base to the airport), Canggu (surfer&#8217;s paradise where international wave-riding competitions are held), Seminyak, Ubud (undoubtedly my favourite part of Bali: where else can you do sunrise yoga in a monkey sanctuary?) and Gili T (essentially the Magaluf of <a href="/topic/Indonesia" class="body-link">Indonesia</a>). </p><p class="sc-pTSbw gOmWnw">

</p><blockquote><p>I started to feel more comfortable in my surroundings, and in my own skin</p></blockquote><p>This felt like more than a holiday from the beginning &#8211; it was a chance to try and prove to my family, my friends and even myself that, despite popular opinion, I could look after myself. Or should at least have the opportunity to try. </p><p></p><p>The best way to describe Bali is a kind of beautiful chaos. From the moment you step off the plane into its small, yet surprisingly pleasant, airport, you get the feeling there&#8217;s not quite enough room for everyone already there &#8211; let alone the plane full of excited people who have just arrived. </p><p>If you fly from the UK, chances are your layover will be in Indonesia&#8217;s capital, Jakarta, meaning arrival into Bali tends to be a bit of a sleepy haze. It&#8217;s why most people, especially backpackers, spend their first night in Kuta &#8211; the closest area to the airport with hotels and hostels. From experience I can safely say it isn&#8217;t worth staying in Kuta for more than that first night to recharge your batteries. </p><p>The rice fields of Canggu</p><p class="sc-pRFZy iIPyzR copyright">(Sam Hancock)</p><p>This wasn&#8217;t always the case though. As with many parts of Bali, tourism has been both a good and bad thing &#8211; while the island relies on it, particularly in high season, travellers have also been blamed for the destruction of some of its most idyllic settings. I was shocked at how much Kuta had changed. When I was six years old, my family moved from Liverpool to Singapore for my dad&#8217;s job &#8211; meaning holidays to Bali (which is only a two and a half hour plane journey away) were a regular occurrence. Back in 2002, the beaches of Kuta were something to marvel at. Now, ravaged by jetsetters, the sand looks and feels dirty, as though it&#8217;s seen better days.</p><p></p><p>One thing the area does still boast, however, is great food for cheap prices. The long, winding roads that lead up to Kuta&#8217;s beach, in particular, have a choice of authentic Balinese restaurants and cafes serving dishes such as chicken satay and mi goreng (noodles with vegetables and egg) for as little as &#163;3. </p><p>Sam (right) and friends hit Party Island</p><p class="sc-pRFZy iIPyzR copyright">(Sam Hancock)</p><p>Safe to say, a low price point was not enough to make me actually eat anything &#8211; not yet. During my first two days, I swerved all food and survived on regular bottles of water to keep myself hydrated. I was still extremely self-conscious of my body at this point; even using my hostel&#8217;s small communal pool made me feel physically sick. The idea of exposing my body, which by this point felt so damaged and starved &#8211; punished, even &#8211; to a bunch of carefree twenty-somethings scared the shit out of me. </p><p>But, by the time I moved on to Seminyak three days after arriving in Bali, I was getting into a very slow-moving process of self-acceptance. I started to feel more comfortable in my surroundings, and in my own skin. One night, as I sat at one of the area&#8217;s much-Instagrammed beanbag and multicoloured umbrella-adorned beach bars, I started thinking about why I had wanted to come here in the first place. What I wanted to prove to everyone, including myself.</p><p>A near-death experience on the speedboat to Party Island made for a memorable trip&#160;</p><p class="sc-pRFZy iIPyzR copyright">(Sam Hancock)</p><p>It was that night, on my way back to the hostel I was staying at, that I stopped at a roadside caf&#233;, ordered a nasi goreng and ate every last bite. Even the egg &#8211; and I hate eggs. It felt like the right thing to do; I wanted to have a good holiday with my friends and not revert to the person I&#8217;d been for the past two and a half years. I kept thinking about how lucky I was to be in such a beautiful part of the world &#8211; and I didn&#8217;t want anything to ruin it. I think what I finally realised was that, when I said &#8220;anything&#8221;, I was talking about myself. </p><p></p><p>After Seminyak, the next three weeks clicked seamlessly into place. My friends arrived and we booked a trip to Gili T (real name: Gili Trawangan, aka Party Island), and then onto Ubud. We followed it up with a visit to Canggu before heading back to Ubud for a second time, just because we loved it so much. </p><p>Every part of the sun-drenched island gives you the opportunity to explore a new aspect of Balinese culture; every part feels completely different to the last. </p><p>Aside from a near-death experience on our speedboat to Party Island, our holiday unfolded without a glitch. That&#8217;s one of the most charming things about Bali &#8211; while it can be utter chaos and you feel that things could go wrong at any moment, it all works out in the end. </p><p>Over Bintangs (an Indonesian beer) at a beach bar in Canggu, the man who served us told us there&#8217;s a traditional Balinese saying that translates as: &#8220;Everything will be OK in the end.&#8221; It seemed fitting for our trip, and for the changes I was actively making as a result of being on the island. </p><p></p><p>By the time I left Bali, almost four weeks after arriving, I felt like a different person in many ways. Neither the island, nor indeed a plate of traditional Indonesian fried rice, cured my anorexia &#8211; if only it were that simple. But the island&#8217;s sense of freedom, hope and enchantment enabled me to see what life without anorexia could be. What I could be. Over that simple plate of nasi goreng, I fell in love with life again &#8211; and, to some extent, food too.</p><p>This has been published as part of The Independent&#8217;s <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/travel/news-and-advice/travel-that-summer-holiday-nostalgia-a9446021.html" class="body-link">That Summer series</a> of personal essays cataloguing the intense, daunting and joy-filled holidays that changed our lives for the better. </p></div>