--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.usnews.com/dims4/USNEWS/79a22a1/2147483647/resize/1200x%3E/quality/85/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmedia.beam.usnews.com%2Fb2%2F2a%2Fc996f3b64ea280d07d44b12d4b98%2F160415-vetbusinessman-stock.jpg 
title: > 
  The Veteran's Guide to Small Business Loans 
description: > 
  According to a 2017 report from the U.S. Small Business Administration, more than 2.5 million businesses were majority owned by veterans.Here's a look at small business loans and other funding options available to veterans.Charles W. McCaffrey, director of the Veterans Business Outreach Center for the National Capital region and a Navy veteran, says this benefit adds up.Preparing to Apply for a Business LoanIf you're preparing to apply for a business loan, make sure you do your homework.The SBA has resource partners – independent organizations like Score, Small Business Development Centers, Women's Business Centers and Veterans Business Outreach Centers – that provide services, classes and mentoring to small business owners. 
date: 1603090914.3075674 
--- 
<div><p>If you're looking to hang up your camo and start your own company, you're not alone. According to a <a href="https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/advocacy/435-veteran-owned-businesses-report.pdf" target="_blank">2017 report</a> from the U.S. Small Business Administration, more than 2.5 million businesses were majority owned by veterans. But starting a business takes money. Here's a look at small business loans and other funding options available to veterans.<br></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">What Are Business Loans?</h3></p><p><br>Business loans are just like other types of loans: A bank, credit union or other type of lender lets you borrow money to start or <a href="https://loans.usnews.com/how-to-get-a-small-business-expansion-loan">expand a business</a>, buy property or equipment, or pay for other expenses. </p><p>It's a debt, an obligation, that your company will incur, and in exchange, you'll pay back not only the principal, but also interest, according to Hal Shelton, a certified mentor with the nonprofit Score Association, author of the book "The Secrets to Writing a Successful Business Plan" and an angel investor. Periodically, you'll also have to report to the lender how your business is doing. </p><p>In general, when you're starting a business, banks are evaluating at least four key criteria when you apply for a business loan, Shelton says:</p><ul>
 <li>Your personal <a href="https://creditcards.usnews.com/articles/everything-you-need-to-know-about-credit-scores">credit score</a>.</li>
 <li>Collateral &#8211; like a house with some equity, stocks, bonds or cash in a savings account &#8211; in case you default on the loan. </li>
 <li>A down payment on the total amount that you need.</li>
 <li>Some experience in the industry you're entering.</li>
</ul><p>These factors will help lenders determine not only whether they're willing to give you the loan, but also what the terms of your loan will be. <br></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Loan Programs from the SBA</h3></p><p><br>If you fall short of your bank's requirements, you might be able to get extra help from the SBA, which partially guarantees loans so that lenders are more willing to shoulder the risk. While the SBA runs a number of loan programs, here are some that veterans, in particular, can benefit from:</p><p><b>SBA 7(a) loan program</b></p><p>The <a href="https://www.sba.gov/partners/lenders/7a-loan-program/types-7a-loans" target="_blank">SBA 7(a) loan program</a>, the federal agency's most commonly used loan program, partially guarantees loans of up to $5 million for small businesses, though recipients may have to pay a loan guarantee fee, depending on the amount of the loan. While SBA 7(a) loans aren't exclusively available to those who served in the military, qualifying veteran-owned businesses do have some perks. </p><p>Through SBA's <a href="https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/resource_files/Veteran_Advantage_FY18_0.pdf" target="_blank">Veterans Advantage</a> initiative, veterans approved for a standard 7(a) loan of up to $350,000 could see their loan guarantee fees cut in half &#8211; or even waived altogether. So, for example, through Veterans Advantage, you'd currently pay a 1.5 percent fee for the guaranteed portion of a $150,001 to $350,000 loan, according to a <a href="https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/lender_notices/Notice_5000-1955_Veteran_Fees_FY18.pdf" target="_blank">notice from the SBA</a>. </p><p>Charles W. McCaffrey, director of the Veterans Business Outreach Center for the National Capital region and a Navy veteran, says this benefit adds up. "You could be saving several thousand dollars on your loan by using the Veterans Advantage program."</p><p>Qualified veterans also don't need to pay an upfront guarantee fee for loans made through <a href="https://www.sba.gov/blogs/sba-loans-explained-101-small-business-owners" target="_blank">SBA Express</a>, an expedited application process for 7(a) loans of up to $350,000. Borrowers who use SBA Express can take advantage of a faster turnaround time, but SBA will only guarantee the loan for up to 50 percent. </p><p>To qualify for these fee reductions or waivers, the small business must be at 51 percent owned or controlled by a veteran who <a href="https://www.sba.gov/sites/default/files/lender_notices/Notice_5000-1955_Veteran_Fees_FY18.pdf" target="_blank">meets certain requirements</a>.</p><p class="myFinance-widget"></p><p><b>Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loans</b> </p><p>Unlike many of the SBA's loan programs, the Military Reservist Economic Injury Disaster Loan, or <a href="https://www.sba.gov/offices/headquarters/ovbd/resources/14807" target="_blank">MREIDL</a>, program provides loans directly from the agency itself. Through MREIDL, SBA issues low-interest loans of up to $2 million to eligible small businesses whose owner or key employee has been called to active-duty status and, as a result, will not be able to meet ongoing operating expense obligations. These loans aim to give businesses the money they need to pay their expenses until the service member can return.</p><p>"This is a great program that very few folks know about," McCaffrey says. "The SBA makes these loans directly, so it can be quicker." <br></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">SBA-backed Loans vs. Conventional Business Loans</h3></p><p><br>Shelton says, "For veterans and nonveterans alike, it's always better to get the loan directly from the bank, without the guarantee, if you meet all the requirements."</p><p>That's because, if you have an SBA-backed loan, you have to pay an upfront loan guarantee fee on top of the regular cost of the loan &#8211; unless that fee is waived, he says. But either way, you also have to fill out additional paperwork to apply for the SBA backing. </p><p>On the other hand, the SBA backing makes it easier for some types of small businesses &#8211; like startups or companies in industries that banks consider higher risk &#8211; to get a loan, says Charles H. Green, business development officer with First Bank Financial Centre, who has 38 years of experience working with small companies. </p><p>"Thanks to the 'credit insurance' aspect of the SBA guarantee, participating SBA lenders are willing to leverage larger loans, rely less on collateral and accept the risk of smaller companies more than a typical conventional lender, making it easier to access capital," he says in an email. </p><p>But even if you are getting a conventional business loan, your bank or credit union may offer special benefits to clients who are active-duty members of the military or vets. For example, qualified applicants are eligible for a discount of up to $500 on origination fees for a business term loan at Chase, according to a representative. </p><p>Tony Pica, vice president of business services at Navy Federal Credit Union, says you should work with your lender to learn what you might qualify for, noting that some lenders will recommend an SBA-backed loan when necessary. </p><p>"Engage your business lender as early as possible to understand all of your options, whether that be traditional financing or utilizing the programs provided by the SBA," Pica says via email. "The lender should provide the advantages of each of these options."<br></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Preparing to Apply for a Business Loan</h3></p><p><br>If you're preparing to apply for a business loan, make sure you do your homework. Green says borrowers should "educate themselves as to exactly what they need to know for what they intend to do, ahead of engaging any third-party consultant, including attorneys and accountants." </p><p>The SBA has resource partners &#8211; independent organizations like Score, Small Business Development Centers, Women's Business Centers and Veterans Business Outreach Centers &#8211; that provide services, classes and mentoring to small business owners. Shelton recommends working with a mentor at an SBA resource partner to develop a plan for your business, and determine how much you need and how long you need it for. </p><p>Shelton says it's a good idea to approach your own bank first. "There's a history, they know your credit, they know your cash management practices, so that has to be a benefit," he says. And your bank also knows that if you go somewhere else, it could lose your business altogether. </p><p>Les Pasternack, group manager, SBA finance for PNC Bank, says, "Ask upfront what paperwork you will be expected to provide, and, if possible, get a head start on completing it. This will help expedite the loan process." </p><p>In addition to a business plan, Pasternack says it's a good idea to gather three years of recent personal and business tax returns, and three years of financial statements. <br></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Other Sources of Funding</h3></p><p><br>In addition to traditional funding sources like banks and credit unions, veterans can use online lenders, which generally have a fast turnaround time but could offer a higher interest rate. Using a <a href="https://creditcards.usnews.com/business">business credit card</a> could be another option if you're looking for financing &#8211; though with the convenience also may come a higher interest rate. And franchisers themselves &#8211; like 7-Eleven, whose CEO is an Army veteran &#8211; may also offer special financing terms for veterans. </p><p>You can also approach venture capital firms and other organizations that invest in startups. For example, <a href="http://www.moonshotscapital.com/" target="_blank">Moonshots Capital</a>, co-founded by a former winner of "The Apprentice" who graduated from the U.S. Military Academy, looks to provide seed money to veteran-owned or -run startups. And <a href="http://hiversandstrivers.com/" target="_blank">Hivers &amp; Strivers</a> provides early-stage funding to startups founded and run by graduates of the U.S. military academies. </p><p>"When you're starting a business, it's tough to get a loan," Shelton says. "You just need to be creative enough and knock on a lot of doors." <br></p><p size="5" class="Raw-slyvem-0 ftSHuE"><h3 class="heading-large">Resources for Veterans</h3></p><p><br>There are many resources available for veterans looking to start or grow their business. Here are a few:</p><ul>
 <li><a href="https://www.sba.gov/offices/headquarters/ovbd/resources/160511" target="_blank"><b>Boots to Business</b></a><b><i> </i></b>is a free SBA program offered in conjunction with the military's Transition Assistance Program that provides training for veterans looking to become business owners. The program is offered at various military installations. McCaffrey, who has taught more than 100 Boots to Business and Boots to Business Reboot classes, says, "We talk about the whole gamut [of funding options], and we talk where it's most appropriate and how you should prepare." </li>
 <li><a href="https://www.sba.gov/offices/headquarters/ovbd/resources/1485216" target="_blank"><b>Boots to Business Reboot</b></a><b><i> </i></b>offers the Boots to Business curriculum to veterans and their spouses, members of the National Guard and reservists in locations off-base.</li>
 <li><a href="https://bunkerlabs.org/" target="_blank"><b>Bunker Labs</b></a><b><i> </i></b>is a nonprofit created by veterans that provides resources and networking opportunities to veterans and their spouses who are looking to start or expand their business.</li>
 <li><a href="http://patriotbootcamp.org/" target="_blank"><b>Patriot Boot Camp</b></a>, another educational nonprofit, provides training for veterans and their spouses.</li>
 <li>In addition to its mentoring program and workshops, the nonprofit <a href="https://www.score.org/browse-library" target="_blank"><b>Score Association</b></a><b> </b>provides a number of resources, including articles, videos, podcasts, blog posts and business plan templates on its website. </li>
 <li><a href="http://vwise.vets.syr.edu/" target="_blank"><b>Veteran Women Igniting the Spirit of Entrepreneurship</b></a>, known as V-WISE, is a business training program for female veterans and military spouses. It's run by the Institute for Veterans and Military Families at Syracuse University.</li>
</ul><p class="ArticleBodyRawList__ListContainer-sc-18hlulv-0 frHlKl">&#13;
</p><p class="myFinance-widget"></p></div>