--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/travel/2020/10/22/GettyImages-450794429_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bqeo_i_u9APj8RuoebjoAHt0k9u7HhRJvuo-ZLenGRumA.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  The alarming – and completely pointless – rise of Covid booze bans 
description: > 
  Across the border in Scotland, a country with a rich drinking culture, all pubs and restaurants now have to close at 6pm.No booze can be served indoors at all, turning once bustling pubs into depressing (and deserted) temperance bars.South Africa imposed two complete bans on the sale of alcohol this year, while parts of Thailand and Greenland have made similar moves.But hospitality venues are not a major factor when it comes to the spread of coronavirus, with Public Health England data blaming them for just five per cent of transmissions.Workplaces, schools, universities and care homes are far bigger players – so why is boozing under fire, and pubs and restaurants being thrown under the bus? 
keywords: > 
  rise, booze, bans, alcohol, uks, bars, sale, hospitality, curfew, restaurants, covid, pubs, cases, alarming, venues, pointless, completely 
date: 1603383344.249324 
--- 
<div><p>For centuries the &#8216;demon drink&#8217; has been blamed for society&#8217;s ills, often vocally and by public figures. Curiously, the Covid crisis has given fresh impetus to the anti-boozing brigade.</p>
<p>As infections have soared across Europe,&#160;many governments, including the UK&#8217;s, have scrambled to crack down &#8211; with the sale and consumption of alcohol often&#160;in the crosshairs.&#160;It&#8217;s as if we&#8217;ve been transported back to the 19th century.&#160;</p>
<p>In September, with cases rising, the Government&#8217;s response was to implement a 10pm curfew on all pubs, bars and restaurants in England &#8211; a terrible scenario for venues that rely on night-time trade.&#160;But even harsher measures have been seen elsewhere.</p>
<p>Across the border in Scotland, <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/destinations/europe/united-kingdom/scotland/articles/scotland-without-pubs/">a country with a rich drinking culture</a>, all pubs and restaurants&#160;now have to close at 6pm. Post-work pints are a thing of the past. No booze can be served indoors at all, turning once bustling pubs into depressing (and deserted) temperance bars. A&#160;<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/travel/news/scotrail-alcohol-ban-covid-restrictions-scotland/">ban on&#160;the consumption of alcohol on Scottish trains</a>&#160;is also in the works.&#160;</p>
<p>Prior to the second&#160;<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/14/would-circuit-breaker-lockdown-look-like/">lockdown</a> in Northern Ireland, alcohol could only be served indoors, with food, and while seated. On a recent visit, I saw a number of innovative workarounds, from bowls of stew&#160;left untouched on tables, to menus from the local fish and chip shop passed around tables in bars. Venues caught flouting the rules&#160;were handed new &#8216;prohibition notices&#8217;&#160;forcing them to close, which sounds more the stuff of themed parties than real police business.</p>
<p>Internationally, some countries have gone even further. South Africa imposed two&#160;complete bans on the sale of alcohol&#160;this year, while parts of Thailand and Greenland have made similar moves.&#160;Even local authorities in the French department of Aisne&#160;tried to put an alcohol ban in place back in March &#8211; zut alors! &#8211;&#160;but had to U-turn just 24 hours later.&#160;</p>
<p>Curfews in Europe are also popping up. In Portugal, the sale of alcohol without food is forbidden after 8pm, and it cannot be sold in shops at all after that time. Booze bans and bar closures have also been introduced in areas of Spain.</p>
<p>A relic of 1920s America, prohibition appears to once again be the cocktail of the day.&#160;</p>
<p>Why the focus on alcohol? Some will say&#160;that,&#160;after&#160;imbibing it, social distancing has a tendency to go out the window. There is some logic in that.&#160;Evidence would suggest, however, that &#8211; at best &#8211; blindly cracking down on alcohol, and by extension bars and pubs, is completely pointless (at worst, it could actually be exacerbating&#160;the Covid problem &#8211; not to mention pushing businesses to the brink).</p>
<p>Weeks after the UK&#8217;s own curfew was put in place, cases are still rising &#8211; and now even more restrictions are being placed on the hospitality sector thanks to the tier system. But hospitality venues are not a major factor when it comes to the spread of coronavirus, with Public Health England data blaming them for just five per cent of transmissions. Workplaces,&#160;schools, universities and care homes are far bigger players &#8211; so why is boozing under fire, and pubs and restaurants being thrown under the&#160;bus?&#160;</p>
<p>In some&#160;countries, businesses&#160;are pushing back. Recently in Berlin, a court overturned a 11pm hospitality curfew&#160;after evidence was presented proving most cases came from other settings&#160;and it &#8220;was not apparent&#8221; that&#160;such a measure would do the slightest bit of&#160;good. In Berlin&#8217;s case, private gatherings of family and friends, as well as large factories, have been major culprits.</p>
</div>