--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/business/2020/02/25/andy-haldane_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqpJliwavx4coWFCaEkEsb3jSGam7j13iPEN_UN7aCbjw.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  The 'unseen' recession threatening to grind down our economy 
description: > 
  But the difficulty comes in the workplace, where new starters pick up as much from watching more experienced staff as they do from formal training.And while maintaining relationships over Teams is one thing, learning how to build relationships online and “restock” that depleted capital is another matter entirely.Intangibles may be harder to measure, but they are scalable - like the recipe for Coca-Cola, say - and they trigger synergies with other industries.But then the harder to replenish pipelines of leads, contacts or clients six months on leaves many nervously eyeing a looming jobs crisis in 2021, and heading into offices to rebuild “social capital” with employers.That’s surely the reason behind the steady rise in those travelling to work despite government injunctions to do the opposite. 
keywords: > 
  work, view, staff, recession, economy, office, threatening, social, intangibles, capital, thing, relationships, online, grind, unseen 
date: 1603272491.222558 
--- 
<div><p>Haldane mused: &#8220;Having lived without them for six months, I now realise these informal non-meetings were in fact my main source of information - the informal chat in the five minute walk from the lifts to my office often contained more useful information than the subsequent one hour meeting in my office.&#8221;</p>
<p>The impact of losing these kinds of intangibles may not show up immediately, as staff draw down on their &#8220;social capital&#8221; of pre-Covid relationships and maintain client relations online for example. But the difficulty comes in the workplace, where new starters pick up as much from watching more experienced staff as they do from formal training. And while maintaining relationships over Teams is one thing, learning how to build relationships online and &#8220;restock&#8221; that depleted capital is another matter entirely.</p>
<p>Stian Westlake, a former government adviser and now chief executive of the Royal Statistical Society, has literally written the book on intangibles, as the co-author with the Bank of England rate-setter Jonathan Haskel of the very readable <a href="https://books.telegraph.co.uk/Product/Jonathan-Haskel/Capitalism-without-Capital--The-Rise-of-the-Intangible-Economy/21619666">Capitalism Without Capital</a> two years ago. Intangibles may be harder to measure, but they are scalable - like the recipe for Coca-Cola, say - and they trigger synergies with other industries. The microwave oven resulted from a combination between a defence firm which&#160;accidentally discovered microwaves from radar technology could heat food, and a white-goods manufacturer who turned it into a domestic appliance now in most kitchens.</p>
<p>Westlake argues that the efficiencies of these intangibles have been hindered by the pandemic. A computer scientist may be able to sit at home and code, but if he can&#8217;t attend conferences and have chance coffees, inevitably that will be shown at some point with less bang for the R&amp;D buck.&#160;Like a factory cancelling its orders for machine tools - and potentially sealing its fate - if people aren&#8217;t getting together and brainstorming, they aren&#8217;t creating the capital that is going to be needed for them to thrive in the future.</p>
<p>In the short term you can muddle through, but as he told me: &#8220;If you cancel ideas, the first thing you may know about it is when the P&amp;L starts to suffer.&#8221;</p>
<p>The shifting narrative of the work from home story of Covid-19 has been fascinating to watch; in my view it has much to do with the dawning realisation of the significance of intangibles. For those lucky WFHers still in jobs, with space at home and shorn of their commute, at first the consensus view was &#8220;who needs an office&#8221;? But then the harder to replenish pipelines of leads, contacts or clients six months on leaves many nervously eyeing a looming jobs crisis in 2021, and heading into offices to rebuild &#8220;social capital&#8221; with employers. That&#8217;s surely the reason behind the steady rise in those travelling to work despite government injunctions to do the opposite.</p>
</div>