--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/investing/2020/10/07/A-virus-cell-and-graph-line-down_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqqVzuuqpFlyLIwiB6NTmJwfSVWeZ_vEN7c6bHu2jJnT8.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  The tyranny of data has put us at the mercy of a new Covid priesthood 
description: > 
  The flu pandemic of 1968 affected millions and killed thousands but there was no suggestion that the country should be placed in a deep freeze while it was suppressed.Even as recently as January 2000, the year of the last serious flu epidemic, no-one suggested lockdowns, tiered or otherwise.The real change is the tyranny of data and the modern worship of metrics.They cannot ask the right questions because they are not sure what assumptions have been made in devising the methodology.Yet we might have done better without it and just dealt with the reality in front of our eyes. 
keywords: > 
  mercy, data, flu, politicians, scenario, past, pandemic, questions, weeks, covid, tyranny, understand, patients, priesthood 
date: 1603229998.0543487 
--- 
<div><p>In the days before Big Data, when the amount of information available to policy makers would have been fairly small and the consequences of locking down the economy unacceptable, the response was entirely different. The flu pandemic of 1968 affected millions and killed thousands but there was no suggestion that the country should be placed in a deep freeze while it was suppressed. Looking through the parliamentary archives in Hansard, I have struggled to find the outbreak mentioned at all beyond a few questions about NHS preparedness. Even as recently as January 2000, the year of the last serious flu epidemic, no-one suggested lockdowns, tiered or otherwise.</p>
<p>The then health secretary, Alan Milburn, reported in the Commons that the worst-affected regions were the North and the Midlands, with 600,000 people attending A&amp;E and 200,000 emergency admissions in the previous three weeks. &#8220;The evidence is that the patients who are being admitted are more ill than normal and are staying longer than normal &#8230; As is usual, and as had been planned, most hospitals have undertaken little routine elective surgery over the past few weeks so as to be able to concentrate their efforts on emergency cases.&#8221; There were, he said, <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/20/dont-believe-scare-stories-hospitals-running-icu-beds/">only 22 ICU beds available in the entire country</a>. Sick patients were left to die in waiting rooms or parked in converted operating theatres.</p>
<p>Of course, there are differences. Coronavirus is not the flu, though for most young people its effects are less debilitating. There is a vaccine for flu and not for Covid. The latter is new and, to begin with, its lethality was unknown but has mercifully turned out to be much lower than feared. Yet these factors alone do not explain the diverse approaches of today&#8217;s governments (not just here but <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/14/france-reimposes-covid-state-emergency/">across western Europe</a>) and those of the past, when life carried on pretty much as normal.</p>
<p>The real change is the tyranny of data and the modern worship of metrics. Our politicians are confronted daily by lots of very large, frightening figures and they also operate on the basis of the &#8220;reasonable worst case scenario&#8221;, a relatively new doctrine used to govern pandemic responses. The basis for that scenario is<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/07/18/environment-fear-fuelled-flawed-modelling/"> statistical modelling</a>, which does not produce a prediction but a possibility dependent on a range of other factors which may or may not transpire.</p>
<p>Though they pretend to, few politicians really understand any of this stuff. They cannot ask the right questions because they are not sure what assumptions have been made in devising the methodology. They are in thrall to the controllers of the algorithms, the new priesthood, just as in the past if you didn&#8217;t speak Latin you could not understand the creed but just accepted it.</p>
<p>At a parliamentary committee hearing on Monday,<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/19/vaccine-unlikely-eradicate-covid-sir-patrick-vallance-tells/"> Sir Patrick Vallance</a>, the chief scientific adviser, said his greatest regret at the outset of this pandemic was a dearth of data. &#8220;We were flying blind," he said. Yet we might have done better without it and just dealt with the reality in front of our eyes. Perhaps the UN could institute a World Common Sense Day. I&#8217;d celebrate that.</p>
</div>