--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://ychef.files.bbci.co.uk/live/624x351/p08tl27m.jpg 
title: > 
  The changes that could help women stay employed 
description: > 
  The Covid-19 recession, on the other hand, seemed practically designed to torpedo women’s employment.Stay-at-home orders and social distancing guidelines took a heavy toll on service and hospitality jobs, where women make up a large share of employees.They also shut down the support systems – schools and day-cares — that enable many women with young children to work.These factors had the potential to push women out of the workforce en masse, the authors wrote.By mid-April, women’s employment had fallen to levels not seen since the mid-1980s. 
date: 1603083773.1493778 
--- 
<div><p>In early April, soon after the US economy began its pandemic-induced nosedive, a group of researchers from Northwestern University <a href="https://faculty.wcas.northwestern.edu/~mdo738/research/Alon_Doepke_Olmstead-Rumsey_Tertilt_COVID_2020.pdf">published a paper</a> that noted some unusual patterns emerging. &#8220;Regular&#8221; recessions &#8211; that is, routine economic contractions not spurred by a once-in-a-century pandemic &#8211; typically hurt men&#8217;s employment more than women&#8217;s, the authors wrote, as male-dominated industries like construction and manufacturing are often the first to slow down.&#160;</p>
<p>The Covid-19 recession, on the other hand, seemed practically designed to torpedo women&#8217;s employment. Stay-at-home orders and social distancing guidelines took a heavy toll on service and hospitality jobs, where women make up a large share of employees. They also shut down the support systems &#8211; schools and day-cares &#8212; that enable many women with young children to work. Grandparents, friends and neighbours who might otherwise have helped were off-limits for fear of contagion.&#160;</p>
<p>These factors had the potential to push women out of the workforce en masse, the authors wrote. And without a concerted effort from employers to retain female talent, the damage to women&#8217;s careers could linger long after the virus is controlled.&#160;</p>
<p>In the years since the #MeToo movement brought <a href="https://www.wsj.com/articles/what-metoo-has-to-do-with-the-workplace-gender-gap-1540267680">increased visibility to gender disparities in the workplace</a>, companies around the world have publicly espoused <a href="https://www.cnbc.com/2020/06/11/companies-are-making-bold-promises-about-greater-diversity-theres-a-long-way-to-go.html">a desire to boost the share of women in their ranks</a> and ensure fair gender representation at the executive level. The Covid-19 crisis may test that commitment like never before.&#160;</p>
<p>&#8220;There are a lot of companies who have thought about gender equity and have really tried to invest in promoting women, having diverse corporate leadership, and being a good place for women and mothers to work,&#8221; says Katherine Goldstein, a North Carolina-based journalist and the creator and host of The Double Shift, a podcast about working mothers. &#8220;We&#8217;re about to really see if that was lip service, or if that&#8217;s something that they&#8217;re committed to when the going gets tough.&#8221;&#160;</p>
<p><strong>New structures needed</strong>&#160;</p>
<p>The early evidence of Covid-19&#8217;s impact on women&#8217;s careers is grim. At the beginning of 2020, <a href="https://www.google.com/search?client=safari&amp;rls=en&amp;q=women+majority+US+workforce&amp;ie=UTF-8&amp;oe=UTF-8">women made up the majority</a> of the US workforce. By mid-April, women&#8217;s employment had fallen to levels <a href="https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/?g=vw0V">not seen since the mid-1980s</a>. When families are forced into a situation in which someone has to cut back on work in order to care for dependents, it&#8217;s typically the lower-earning partner whose career takes the hit. In the majority of dual-income heterosexual partnerships in the US, <a href="https://wamu.org/story/20/02/17/more-couples-are-embracing-female-breadwinners-despite-decades-old-stigma/">that lower earning partner is female</a>.</p></div>