--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/news/2020/10/14/PLANET_NORMAL_SLATE_SUECOOK_NOTEXT-01_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqNJjoeBT78QIaYdkJdEY4CohSiCWeohV0QeCx0LiHLVY.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  The week on Planet Normal: our Government's rocket is heading for lockdown 
description: > 
  Over a million women have missed breast cancer screenings due to lockdown, for instance, stymying the prevention of untold future tragedies.With hospitalisation and fatalities still low, as Covid cases rise, the lockdown logic of the Government’s health experts, and the broader medical establishment, is now rightly being challenged.Rather than recognising the growing gap between cases and deaths, Boris Johnson is now turning the screw even tighter.They, like so many lockdown enthusiasts, are paid by the state – it’s not their jobs and mortgages on the line.Join us on our metaphorical capsule of common sense, by listening to the latest Planet Normal podcast, which comes out every Thursday. 
date: 1603087035.410438 
--- 
<div><p>Fatalities have gone up in recent weeks &#8211; as the media doom-mongers keep telling us. But that happens every year, as winter draws in and deaths from respiratory diseases rise. There were 9,945 deaths overall in England and Wales during the first week of October, only very slightly higher than the same week average between 2015 and 2019, long before this pandemic.</p>
<p>The difference this year is we&#8217;ve endured the biggest economic collapse in three centuries, racked up the largest national debt in peacetime history and imposed untold psychological damage on our population, not least the young. Then there&#8217;s the non-Covid health care we&#8217;ve denied to countless millions, with so much of the NHS on stand-by waiting for &#8220;the second wave&#8221;.</p>
<p>That&#8217;s why scientists at Edinburgh University have just published a major study concluding that the Government&#8217;s anti-Covid restrictions could be costing more lives than they save. Over a million women <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/life/breast-cancer-scare-lockdown-could-have-saved-life/">have missed&#160;breast cancer screenings due to lockdown</a>, for instance, stymying the prevention of untold future tragedies. Then there&#8217;s the shocking impact of multiple company collapses and mass unemployment on health outcomes &#8211; resulting in what economists call &#8220;deaths of despair&#8221;.</p>
<p>With hospitalisation and fatalities still low, as Covid cases rise, the lockdown logic of the Government&#8217;s health experts, and the broader medical establishment, is now rightly being challenged. More and more scientists have begun calling for age-specific shielding, with the elderly taking precautions, as the rest of us build population immunity by getting on with our lives.</p>
<p>Rather than recognising the growing gap between cases and deaths, Boris Johnson is now turning the screw even tighter. The new three-tier system, given the huge north-south rift it&#8217;s causing, could yet become <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/10/15/boris-sleepwalking-national-lockdown-claims-despise/">a de facto national lockdown by the back door</a>.</p>
<p>The Prime Minister is being pushed by his medical advisors to, once again, close down the country almost entirely. They, like so many lockdown enthusiasts, are paid by the state &#8211; it&#8217;s not their jobs and mortgages on the line. Johnson must weigh the now very questionable gains of lockdown against the absolutely certain drawbacks of economic collapse &#8211; which will cost lives, as well as livelihoods.</p>
<p>&#8220;We oldies should just use our common sense, while everyone else gets on with their lives,&#8221; says James, who is 79, writing to us at planetnormal@telegraph.co.uk. &#8220;We&#8217;re sacrificing the health, wealth and well-being of millions for this messianic, ill-founded belief that curtailing freedom can control a virus,&#8221; says Deborah, who is 71.</p>
<p>While cases are rising, fatalities remain mercifully low &#8211; and are almost entirely among the elderly with other life-threatening conditions. So help them shield, while the rest of us carry on while taking precautions. No.10 must ignore transitory pro-lockdown opinion polls driven by loaded questions and media fear-mongering. For there&#8217;s a much broader public mood that we&#8217;re going in the wrong direction and need to step back from the brink.</p>
<p><strong>Join us on our metaphorical capsule of common sense, by listening to the latest Planet Normal podcast, which comes out every Thursday. It&#8217;s free, and available at <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/planetnormal">telegraph.co.uk/planetnormal</a> or via iTunes, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.</strong></p>
</div>