--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8ef838c21cfb0019468fd6?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  The CEO of Impossible Foods lay outs why the company is doubling the size of its R&D team as it tries to break into milk, the largest plant-based category 
description: > 
  Impossible Foods is doubling its research and development team from its current 150 people over the next year to tackle plant-based milk and other projects, the company said Tuesday.But for Impossible Foods CEO and Founder Pat Brown, it's top-of-mind when a new funding round closes.That focus is part of why the plant-based meat maker said Tuesday that it wants to hire dozens more scientists with the goal of doubling the headcount of its R&D team over the next 12 months.A company spokeswoman confirmed that Impossible does not have immediate plans to start selling plant-based milk.By contrast, the challenge for Impossible's expanded team will be finding entirely new ways of using plant proteins, he said. 
keywords: > 
  size, plantbased, lay, rd, protein, proteins, outs, tries, milk, meat, brown, foods, team, impossible, company, plant, impossibles, largest 
date: 1603233681.37182 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Impossible Foods is doubling its research and development team from its current 150 people over the next year to tackle plant-based milk and other projects, the company said Tuesday.</li>
<li>The hiring spree includes 10 positions earmarked for the "Impossible Investigator" program, which the company says will be similar to faculty positions at research universities and attempt to "solve the world's biggest environmental challenges and advance the company's mission of eliminating animals in the food system."</li>
<li>CEO and Founder Pat Brown, a former Stanford professor, said that Impossible's success rests on replicating the taste, texture and other qualities of animal meat with plant-based alternatives, making the company's science "what ultimately determines our success."</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-retail-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-retail-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Research and development has traditionally been a money sink for companies. But for Impossible Foods CEO and Founder Pat Brown, it's top-of-mind when a new funding round closes.</p><p>"What ultimately determines our success is the science," Brown said in an interview with Business Insider. "When we're raising money, I'm thinking about what we can do with R&amp;D."</p><p>That focus is part of why the plant-based meat maker said Tuesday that it wants to hire dozens more scientists with the goal of doubling the headcount of its R&amp;D team over the next 12 months. The company currently has about 150 R&amp;D-focused employees and is advertising for about 50 roles as part of the expansion.</p><p>Among the people Impossible is looking for are 10 researchers for its "Impossible Investigator" program. Impossible says that the positions will allow researchers to "conceptualize, fund and staff research programs that solve the world's biggest environmental challenges and advance the company's mission of eliminating animals in the food system."</p><p>Brown, who is professor emeritus in Stanford University's biochemistry department, said there are a lot of challenges for would-be Investigators to tackle. Impossible said Tuesday that it's developing its own plant-based milk, a product that would take it into a $2 billion market and the only plant-based food category larger than meat, according to the Plant Based Food Association. A company spokeswoman confirmed that Impossible does not have immediate plans to start selling plant-based milk.</p><p>There are also challenges higher up in Impossible's supply chain that need attention, Brown said, such as which varieties of plants produce the best protein for meat and how Impossible can most closely replicate characteristics of animal meat.</p><p>One example is rubisco, a protein found in plant leaves and regarded as Earth's most abundant protein. While the rubisco in a few leaves doesn't amount to much, Brown said his researchers could explore how to pull the protein out of plant leaves and eventually concentrate it in quantities high enough for use in plant-based meat.</p><p>"The protein content is relatively low," he said, "and now the challenge is to make it a complete system for extracting everything of value from leaves."</p>
<p id="gpt-post-retail-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-retail-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Despite expectations that sales of plant-based meats and other proteins will grow by billions of dollars in the coming years, science still has to catch up, especially when it comes to making plant-based meats closely resemble animal meat, Brown added.&#160;</p><p>"Biologists study proteins in terms of how they achieve the functions" they serve in plants or animals, he said. By contrast, the challenge for Impossible's expanded team will be finding entirely new ways of using plant proteins, he said.</p><p>Food companies of a variety of sizes, from <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/7-emerging-alternative-protein-brands-youve-never-heard-of-2020-10">startups</a> to major CPG players, are trying to expand the range of inputs and manufacturing techniques for making plant-based meats and proteins. While Impossible and rival Beyond Meat have found success with burgers and meat grounds that use ingredients like pea and soy, investors and executives have said that companies will need more options in order for the industry to grow as projected.</p><p>Impossible has raised about $1.5 billion since its founding in 2011, including $700 million so far in 2020, the company said. Impossible has no immediate plans for an IPO, Brown said, but he added that an offering is likely in the future.</p><p>Brown, who left his position at Stanford to found Impossible Foods in 2011, said Impossible's goal is to make producing meat and other foods from animals obsolete while still meeting growing demand for protein-rich foods as the world's population expands.</p><p>"We're using ridiculous technology to produce these foods," he said. "The world is going to continue to want them, but we need to change the way we make them."</p><p>With the R&amp;D expansion, Brown said, "we're asking people to identify themselves and how they think they can solve the problem."</p>
                  </div>