--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://video-images.vice.com//articles/5f918a3a2d85a1009c5b610c/lede/1603374161214-ap20295640889289.jpeg?image-resize-opts=Y3JvcD0xeHc6MC44NDN4aDsweHcsMC4wMzgzeGgmcmVzaXplPTEyMDA6KiZyZXNpemU9MTIwMDoq 
title: > 
  The GOP Just Broke the Rules to Advance Amy Coney Barrett's Supreme Court Nomination 
description: > 
  Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee tossed out committee rules Thursday morning and voted to advance Judge Amy Coney Barrett’s nomination to the Supreme Court to the full Senate without any Democratic minority members present.The 12-0 committee vote frees the full Senate to vote on President Donald Trump’s nomination of Barrett on Monday.With a 53-47 majority, there’s little to stop Senate Republicans from confirming a ninth Supreme Court justice just a few days before the November 3 election.Under Senate Judiciary Committee rules, at least two members of the minority must be present for the committee to conduct business.The Supreme Court is set to hear oral arguments in a lawsuit over the Affordable Care Act on November 10, and Democrats fear that Justice Barrett would help gut the law. 
keywords: > 
  amy, supreme, nomination, vote, committee, justice, democrats, broke, barrett, rules, court, gop, coney, barretts, senate, advance 
date: 1603376818.6105695 
--- 
<div><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>This is a developing story. Please refresh for updates.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Republicans on the Senate Judiciary Committee tossed out committee rules Thursday morning and voted to advance Judge Amy Coney Barrett&#8217;s nomination to the Supreme Court to the full Senate without any Democratic minority members present.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>The 12-0 committee vote frees the full Senate to vote on President Donald Trump&#8217;s nomination of Barrett on Monday. With a 53-47 majority, there&#8217;s little to stop Senate Republicans from confirming a ninth Supreme Court justice just a few days before the November 3 election.</p>
</span><p></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>If confirmed, Barrett would cement the court&#8217;s 6-3 conservative majority, likely for years to come. She would replace the late Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg, a trailblazing feminist lawyer who died in mid-September after several bouts with cancer.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Under Senate Judiciary Committee rules, at least two members of the minority must be present for the committee to conduct business. But South Carolina Sen. Lindsey Graham, the committee chair, has broad latitude to control the committee&#8217;s conduct.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>&#8220;As a matter of committee rules, in practical terms, the chairman can kind of get around things, change the rules,&#8221; Rich Arenberg, who wrote the book &#8220;Congressional Procedure,&#8221; a guide to congressional legislative processes, <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/935xxy/heres-how-far-mitch-mcconnell-is-willing-to-go-to-get-amy-coney-barrett-on-the-supreme-court">told VICE News earlier this month</a>. &#8220;In my view, Graham will be able to get the nomination reported to the floor.&#8221;</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Senate Minority Leader Chuck Schumer, a Democrat of New York, said in a statement ahead of the committee vote that Democrats intended to boycott the proceeding.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>&#8220;Republicans have moved at breakneck speed to jam through this nominee, ignoring her troubling record and unprecedented evasions, and breaking longstanding committee rules to set tomorrow&#8217;s vote,&#8221; he said in a statement, <a href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/22/us/politics/barrett-nomination-republicans.html">as reported by the New York Times</a>. &#8220;We will not grant this process any further legitimacy by participating in a committee markup of this nomination just 12 days before the culmination of an election that is already underway.&#8221;</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>During Barrett&#8217;s confirmation hearing last week, Democrats attacked the process as a rushed sham and a hypocritical turn from Republicans, many of whom agreed to block President Barack Obama&#8217;s nomination of Merrick Garland in 2016 on the grounds that a new Supreme Court justice should not be confirmed in an election year.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>They also sought to extract more information from Barrett, who sits on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the 7th Circuit, about her views on issues like abortion, LGBTQ rights, and the Affordable Care Act. The Supreme Court is set to hear oral arguments in a lawsuit over the Affordable Care Act on November 10, and Democrats fear that Justice Barrett would help gut the law. (Rather than showing up to the committee vote, the Democrats placed posters of people who, they said, could lose their healthcare if Barrett were confirmed, the Times reported.)</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>But Barrett largely <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/bvxgx5/what-amy-coney-barrett-thinks-abortion-lgbtq-rights-confirmation-hearing-supreme-court">refused to share her judicial opinions last week</a>, a pattern she kept up in <a href="https://www.vice.com/en/article/pkdejn/amy-coney-barrett-still-wont-say-if-systemic-racism-is-real">her Tuesday written responses</a> to questions submitted by the senators. While she identified herself as an originalist in the mold of the legendary conservative Justice Antonin Scalia, who she once clerked for, Barrett frequently avoided senators&#8217; questions by citing the past example of Supreme Court nominees who tried not to share their legal thinking on past Supreme Court cases or opine on litigation that may come before the court.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Barrett would not, for example, say if she believes that climate change or systemic racism is real, or whether someone&#8217;s sexual orientation is an immutable trait. She has also declined to say whether Trump can pardon himself, if a president can unilaterally delay an election, or if presidents should commit to peaceful transfers of power.</p>
</span></div>