--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/films/2020/10/20/TELEMMGLPICT000241831159_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bqek9vKm18v_rkIPH9w2GMNoGXySPv9M1Jbe0Fc3Bi1Fk.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  The Secret Garden, review: get your family to the cinema for a sparkling Covid antidote 
description: > 
  You may have noticed that the phrase “the film we need right now” is being thrown around by critics these days on a near-weekly basis.What I’m saying is there’s value in the old cliché still, and The Secret Garden may be the best excuse yet to re-air it.Back in 2019, Marc Munden’s film would have been received as, well, exactly what it is: a handsome, well-acted, elegantly written adaptation of the classic children’s novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett.In what is fast becoming standard pandemic operating procedure, The Secret Garden is being released simultaneously in cinemas and on the Sky Cinema home entertainment platform.“I’m not a child,” Mary amusingly snaps at Mrs Medlock during her orientation tour – yet Munden’s film knows how to treat its viewers like children in all the best ways. 
keywords: > 
  secret, mrs, cinema, sparkling, scene, family, thing, review, mary, garden, mundens, antidote, medlock, film, walters, need, covid 
date: 1603353552.3595996 
--- 
<div><p><strong>Dir: Marc Munden; Starring: Dixie Egerickx, Colin Firth, Julie Walters, Edan Hayhurst, Amir Wilson,&#160; Isis Davis. PG cert, 100 mins.</strong></p>
<p>You may have noticed that the phrase &#8220;the film we need right now&#8221; is being thrown around by critics these days on a near-weekly basis. Why? Well, for one thing, we currently need a lot more films than usual: it&#8217;s not as if the world is overflowing with alternative leisure-time activities. But what has also become clear during our planet&#8217;s present coronaviral predicament is that certain stories &#8211; sometimes even familiar ones &#8211; have felt surprisingly more urgent and potent.</p>
<p>What I&#8217;m saying is there&#8217;s value in the old clich&#233; still, and The Secret Garden may be the best excuse yet to re-air it. Back in 2019, Marc Munden&#8217;s film would have been received as, well, exactly what it is: a handsome, well-acted, elegantly written adaptation of the classic children&#8217;s novel by Frances Hodgson Burnett. But in a year in which the world&#8217;s natural, everyday pleasures have often been walled-off and remote, it can&#8217;t help but feel like the family film of the moment.</p>
<p>And thanks to <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/09/27/itll-take-man-cape-save-hollywood/">Hollywood&#8217;s ostrich-like response to Covid</a>, the moment has long been in dire need of one.&#160;In what is fast becoming standard pandemic operating procedure, The Secret Garden is being released simultaneously in cinemas and on the Sky Cinema home entertainment platform. But don&#8217;t underestimate the additional, spirit-lifting cathartic oomph that comes with watching it outside of the house.</p>
<p>That is, after all, where Mary Lennox, who&#8217;s played by the terrifically talented 14-year-old British actress Dixie Egerickx, longs to be. When the film begins, Burnett&#8217;s forthright young heroine is living something of a 28-Days-Later-like existence, surviving on sugar cubes and cold, stagnant tea in her parents&#8217; deserted colonial abode. It&#8217;s 1947 in Partition-era British India, and her mother and father are, fairly ominously, nowhere to be seen. Discovered by soldiers, she&#8217;s shipped off to Misselthwaite Manor, her uncle&#8217;s mansion on Yorkshire&#8217;s fog-enfolded moors, and a new life of indefinite loneliness and confinement. The closest thing she has to friends are Mrs Medlock (<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/julie-walters/">Julie Walters</a>), the snippy housekeeper, and Martha (Isis Davis), her no-nonsense maid, while Lord Craven himself (<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/films/2018/01/19/colin-firth-wouldnt-work-woody-allen/">Colin Firth</a>) creaks and skulks at a lugubrious remove.</p>
<p>&#8220;I&#8217;m not a <i>child,</i>&#8221; Mary amusingly snaps at Mrs Medlock during her orientation tour &#8211; yet Munden&#8217;s film knows how to treat its viewers like children in all the best ways. Cinematographer Lol Crawley&#8217;s camera often hovers warily at a 10-year-old&#8217;s eye level, intimately tying our perspective as an audience to Mary&#8217;s own, while <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/authors/j/jack-thorne/">Jack Thorne</a>&#8217;s crisp, supple screenplay allows us to discover the plot scene by scene, just as Mary keeps happening on revealing new nooks and pockets as she explores Misselthwaite&#8217;s corridors and grounds.</p>
</div>