--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f89a1b89e9fe40019009b5d?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  There's never been a better time to invest, according to a financial planner whose firm manages $1.3 billion. Here's his step-by-step guide to getting started. 
description: > 
  Lawson has over 25 years of experience in financial services and he is the founder of the financial planning firm Equilibrium Financial Planning , which manages $1.3 billion worth of investments on behalf of its clients.Lawson is the founder and partner of Equilibrium Financial Planning, which he launched in 1995 after working as a consultant broker.The company manages over $1.3 billion in investments on behalf of a small group of clients.According to Lawson, if you want to get started in investing, here's what to do:Invest now"There's never been a better time to invest," Lawson said — even if this sounds optimistic in the current economic climate.You don't have to build your financial portfolio by yourself, since it can be "incredibly difficult," Lawson said. 
date: 1603123116.6673946 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li><strong>The pandemic has contributed to choppy global stock markets, and it's a daunting time to decide where to put your money.</strong></li>
<li><strong>In an interview with Business Insider, financial expert <a href="https://www.linkedin.com/in/colinalawson/">Colin Lawson</a> discussed the key steps anyone who feels confident enough to start investing now should follow.</strong></li>
<li><strong>He said that if you've never invested, there's never been a better time to do so.</strong></li>
<li><strong>Lawson has over 25 years of experience in financial services and he is the founder of the financial planning firm </strong><a href="https://equilibrium.co.uk/"><strong>Equilibrium Financial Planning</strong></a><strong>, which manages $1.3 billion worth of investments on behalf of its clients.</strong></li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-prime-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-prime-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Finance and investing can feel complex, but financially savvy people <a href="https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jel.52.1.5">are more likely to grow their wealth</a>.</p><p>According to a study in the <a href="https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/journal-of-pension-economics-and-finance/article/financial-literacy-around-the-world-an-overview/0488F901318E0FBC4C92DC6E964AB89C">Journal of Pension Economics and Finance</a>, only one-third of the global population understands the basic concepts behind everyday financial decisions.</p><p>We asked the finance expert Colin Lawson for his take on the steps to take to start investing when you have zero experience. Lawson is the founder and partner of <a href="https://equilibrium.co.uk/">Equilibrium Financial Planning</a>, which he launched in 1995 after working as a consultant broker. The company manages over $1.3 billion in investments on behalf of a small group of clients.</p><p>According to Lawson, if you want to get started in investing, here's what to do:</p><h2><strong>Invest now</strong></h2><p>"There's never been a better time to invest," Lawson said &#8212; even if this sounds optimistic in the current economic climate.</p><p>Rates on cash deposits "have been slashed and they're going to go lower yet", he said. Inflation is going to erode what you get on your saver account, and you're guaranteed to lose money over five years by leaving savings in the bank, he said.</p><p>"If you invested money in pretty much anywhere, you'll be mindful to track it tomorrow," Lawson said. The dividend any company is going to pay out relative to its stock price will be 2 or 3%, even if the market doesn't go anywhere for the next five years.&#160;</p><p>In other words, the dividend any company pays shareholders will still be higher than what you might get from your savings account, even if the broader stock market didn't rally significantly in the next five years.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-prime-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-prime-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"The decision to invest or leaving cash has never been easier in my mind, as everything would outperform cash over the next five years," he said.&#160;</p><h2><strong>Ask yourself these two questions</strong></h2><p>You need to understand what the purpose of the investment is, Lawson said.</p><p>Ask yourself these two questions:</p><ul><li>What do you need this to do for you?</li><li>When do you need it to do it for you?</li></ul><h2><strong>Size the money relative to the risk</strong></h2><p>Once you've worked out what the purpose of your investment is, you should then understand what risks you can take by putting that money to work, and how much money you should invest. Losing money is part of investing. The key is to prepare for it and not get personally attached to your holdings. Essentially, the prospect of losing some money shouldn't have a devastating emotional impact on you. "You need to think about the emotional side," Lawson said.</p><h2><strong>Use online and AI-based investing programs</strong></h2><p>Ask for help. You don't have to build your financial portfolio by yourself, since it can be "incredibly difficult," Lawson said.&#160;&#160;</p><p>There are online and AI-based investing programs that take you through a series of questions and help you build a portfolio. He suggested the UK digital wealth management firm Nutmeg, or US-based investment advisor Vanguard, which will tailor a portfolio for you, based on your needs, but will still allow you to retain control over what you invest in. (Bear in mind that some apps and programs may take higher fees).</p><h2><strong>Do your research</strong>&#160;</h2><p>Once you have an idea of what you want to invest in, do some research.</p>
<p id="gpt-post-prime-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-prime-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Think about what's important for you and what your priorities are. For example, think about whether you are comfortable investing in a sector that is linked with accelerating climate change, or with human rights abuses, such as the use of child labor.</p><p>Understand how crucial the ethical side of investing is for you at this stage &#8212; "I think it's really important, but it also very much depends upon your personal philosophy," Lawson said.</p>
                  </div>