--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/politics/2020/10/17/TELEMMGLPICT000242131558_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqJJEJgKLX0rrxNoIATWjBZbT6aRWrUGBXW5sIaiY7uSc.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  This government has a serious credibility problem 
description: > 
  After test and trace failures, vaccine delays and the much ridiculed £100 billion Operation Moonshot plan for rapid testing, Boris Johnson’s government has a credibility problem.Of late, Conservative MPs have been trying to impress on Mr Johnson that a suppression-until-a-vaccine strategy is high risk.To get his party to back the current restrictions, Mr Johnson needs to convince sceptical MPs that help really is coming.The good news for Mr Johnson is that his beleaguered Health Secretary fares worse.“People say the Prime Minister is too optimistic, but Hancock’s the bigger problem – he hams it up to try to impress No 10,” says a colleague. 
date: 1603123146.5159004 
--- 
<div><p>While the update made the news, the public reception failed to match the enthusiasm in Whitehall. After test and trace failures, vaccine delays and the <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/2020/09/24/operation-moonshot-swab-tests-could-damage-economy-claims-top/">much ridiculed &#163;100&#8201;billion Operation Moonshot plan</a> for rapid testing, Boris Johnson&#8217;s government has a credibility problem. &#8220;No one believes a word they say any more,&#8221; complains one former minister.</p>
<p>The PM is in part to blame. Over the past six months, Mr Johnson has gone from saying the tide could be turned on the virus in 12 weeks, to a hope to get back to &#8220;normality&#8221; by Christmas, to a promise of no social distancing by next autumn. With promises of world-beating systems to tackle coronavirus and expectations over the effectiveness of a vaccine scaled down, Tory MPs complain that the Government has a record for overpromising and underdelivering.</p>
<p>This is particularly problematic at a time when the PM is coming under pressure from senior Tories to present an exit strategy from social distancing rules. Of late, Conservative MPs have been trying to impress on Mr Johnson that a suppression-until-a-vaccine strategy is high risk. &#8220;If he wants us to support his approach, it would help if he could point to something we&#8217;ve done that is actually world-beating,&#8221; says a senior Tory. To get his party to back the current restrictions, Mr Johnson needs to convince sceptical MPs that help really is coming.</p>
<p>&#160;</p>
<h3>All change?</h3>
<p>One possible change might be a facelift. A BMG poll at the weekend found that only 36 per cent of those surveyed<a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/women/life/yes-boris-tippingpoint-trust/"> trust the Prime Minister to lead the country&#8217;s response to pandemic</a>. The good news for Mr Johnson is that his beleaguered Health Secretary fares worse.</p>
<p>Conservative MPs will be able to sympathise with the finding. Matt Hancock is attracting increasing criticism from his colleagues. &#8220;People say the Prime Minister is too optimistic, but Hancock&#8217;s the bigger problem &#8211; he hams it up to try to impress No&#8201;10,&#8221; says a colleague.</p>
<p>There are signs that Downing Street shares these concerns. &#8220;They worry his optimism is misplaced,&#8221; says a recent visitor to the building. Aides are also keen to distance the latest testing developments from Operation Moonshot. That&#8217;s probably for the best. Last month Mr Hancock was met with laughter in the Commons when he defended the plan for mass testing at a time when the current system was struggling. In other government departments, the scheme is widely referred to as &#8220;Operation Moonf---&#8221;.</p>
</div>