--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://techcrunch.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Screen-Shot-2020-10-21-at-10.51.25-AM.png?w=764 
title: > 
  This serial founder is taking on Carta with cap table management software she says is better for founders – TechCrunch 
description: > 
  We attract founders to the team because they’ve experienced firsthand the difficulties of managing a cap table and want to build a better tool for other founders.They were able to capture a large portion of the market by building a better product that resonated with developers.Part of the reason we started Pulley is because we had frustrations with other cap table management tools.So there is easily a $2,000 hidden fee when using tools that aren’t self-serve for setting up and updating your cap table.A stakeholder is any employee or investor on the cap table. 
keywords: > 
  techcrunch, better, serial, carta, founders, pulley, startups, product, table, taking, software, company, cap, management, companies, founder 
date: 1603304677.8882995 
--- 
<div><p>This serial founder is taking on Carta with cap table management software she says is better for founders</p><p id="speakable-summary">Yin Wu has cofounded several companies since graduating from Stanford in 2011, including a computer vision company called Double Labs that <a href="https://venturebeat.com/2015/09/11/microsoft-buys-double-labs-the-startup-behind-android-lockscreen-app-echo/">sold</a> to Microsoft, where she stayed on for a couple of years as a software engineer. In fact, it was only after that sale she she says she &#8220;actually understood all of the nuances with a company&#8217;s cap table.&#8221;</p>
<p>Her newest company, <a href="https://pulley.com">Pulley</a>, a 14-month-old, Mountain View, Ca.-based maker of cap table management software aims to solve that same problem and has so far raised $10 million toward that end led by the payments company Stripe, with participation from Caffeinated Capital, General Catalyst, 8VC, and numerous angel investors.</p>
<p>Wu is going up against some pretty powerful competition. <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/eshares" target="_blank">Carta </a> was reportedly raising <a href="https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2020-04-15/andreessen-horowitz-backed-startup-carta-to-cut-161-jobs">$200 million</a> in fresh funding at a $3 billion valuation as of the spring (a round the company never official confirmed or announced). Last year, it raised <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2019/05/06/carta-was-just-valued-at-1-7-billion-by-andreessen-horowitz-in-a-deal-some-see-as-rich/">$300 million</a>. Morgan Stanley has meanwhile been beefing up its stock plan administration business, <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/morgan-stanley-acquires-solium-capital-2019-2">acquiring Solium Capital early last year</a> and more newly purchasing <a href="https://www.finchannel.com/business/banksandservices/78774-morgan-stanley-buys-barclays-global-stock-and-rewards-business">Barclay&#8217;s stock plan business</a>.</p><p class="piano-inline-promo"></p>
<p>Of course, startups often manage to find a way to take down incumbents and a distraction for Carta, at least, in the form of a very public <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/07/21/cartas-former-marketing-vp-who-spearheaded-its-report-on-pay-inequality-is-suing-over-gender-discrimination/">gender discrimination lawsuit</a> by a former VP of marketing, could be the kind of opening that Pulley needs. We emailed with Yu yesterday to ask if that might be the case. She didn&#8217;t answer directly, but she did mention &#8220;values,&#8221; as long as shared some more details about what she sees as different about the two products.</p>
<p><strong>TC: Why start this company? Has Carta&#8217;s press of late created an opening for a new upstart in the space?</strong></p>
<p>YW: I left Microsoft in 2018 and started Pulley a year later. We skipped the seed and raised the A because of overwhelming demand from investors. Many wanted a better product for their portfolio companies. Many founders are increasingly thinking about choosing with companies, like Pulley, that better align with their values.</p>
<p><strong>TC: How many people are working for Pulley and are any folks you pulled out of Carta?</strong></p>
<p>YW: We&#8217;re a team of seven and have four people on the team who are former Y Combinator founders. We attract founders to the team because they&#8217;ve experienced firsthand the difficulties of managing a cap table and want to build a better tool for other founders. We have not pulled anyone out of Carta yet.</p>
<p><strong>TC: Carta has raised a lot of funding and it has long tentacles. What can Pulley offer startups that Carta cannot?</strong></p>
<p>YW: We offer startups a better product compared to our competitors. We make every interaction on Pulley easier and faster. 409A valuations take five days instead of weeks, and onboarding is the same day rather than months. By analogy, this is similar to the difference between <a class="crunchbase-link" href="https://crunchbase.com/organization/stripe" target="_blank">Stripe </a> and Braintree when Stripe initially launched. There were many different payment processes when Stripe launched. They were able to capture a large portion of the market by building a better product that resonated with developers.</p>
<p>One of the features that stands out on Pulley is our modeling feature [which helps founders model dilution in future rounds and helps employees understand the value of their equity as the company grows]. Founders switch from our competitors to Pulley to use our modeling tool [and it works] with pre-money SAFEs, post-money SAFEs, and factors in pro-ratas and discounts. To my knowledge, Pulley&#8217;s modeling tool is the most comprehensive product on the market.</p>
<p><strong>TC: How does your pricing compare with Carta&#8217;s?</strong></p>
<p>YW:&#160; Pulley is free for early-stage companies regardless of how much they raise. We&#8217;re price competitive with Carta on our paid plans. Part of the reason we started Pulley is because we had frustrations with other cap table management tools. When using other services, we had to regularly ping our accountants or lawyers to make edits, run reports, or get data. Each time we involved the lawyers, it was an expensive legal fee. So there is easily a $2,000 hidden fee when using tools that aren&#8217;t self-serve for setting up and updating your cap table.</p>
<p><strong>TC: Is there a business-to-business opportunity here, where maybe attorneys or accountants or wealth managers private label this service? Or are these industry professionals viewed as competitors?</strong></p>
<p>YW: We think there are opportunities to white label the service for accountants and law firms. However, this is currently not our focus.</p>
<p><strong>TC: How adaptable is the software? Can it deal with a complicated scenario, a corner case?</strong></p>
<p>YW: We started Pulley one year ago and we&#8217;re launching today because we have invested in building an architecture that can support complex cap table scenarios as companies scale. There are two things that you have to get right with cap table systems, First, never lose the data and second, always make sure the numbers are correct. We haven&#8217;t lost data for any customer and we have a comprehensive system of tests that verifies the cap table numbers on Pulley remain accurate.</p>
<p>TC: At what stage does it make sense for a startup to work with Pulley, and do you have the tools to hang onto them and keep them from switching over to a competitor later?</p>
<p>YW: We work with companies past the Series A, like Fast and Clubhouse. Companies are not looking to change their cap table provider if Pulley has the tool to grow with them. We already have the features of our competitors, including electronic share issuance, ACH transfers for options, modeling tools for multiple rounds, and more. We think we can win more startups because Pulley is also easier to use and faster to onboard.</p>
<p><strong>TC: Regarding your paid plans, how much is Pulley charging and for what? How many tiers of service are there?</strong></p>
<p>YW; Pulley is free for early-stage startups with less than 25 stakeholders. We charge $10 per stakeholder per month when companies scale beyond that. A stakeholder is any employee or investor on the cap table. Most companies upgrade to our premium plan after a seed round when they need a 409A valuation.</p>
<p>Cap table management is an area where companies don&#8217;t want a free product. Pulley takes our customers data privacy and security very seriously. We charge a flat fee for companies so they rest assured that their data will never be sold or used without their permission.</p>
<p><strong>TC: What&#8217;s Pulley&#8217;s relationship to venture firms?</strong></p>
<p>YW: We&#8217;re currently focused on founders rather than investors. We work with accelerators like Y Combinator to help their portfolio companies manage their cap table, but don&#8217;t have a formal relationship with any VC firms.</p>
			</div>