--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://video-images.vice.com/test-uploads/articles/5f083812c4e49e0096b24b78/lede/1594374163283-pjimage-29.jpeg?image-resize-opts=Y3JvcD0xeHc6MXhoO2NlbnRlcixjZW50ZXImcmVzaXplPTEyMDA6KiZyZXNpemU9MTIwMDoq 
title: > 
  This Guy Disguises 5G Towers So People Don't Burn Them 
description: > 
  Anton Hermes is the head of Camouflage BV, a Dutch company devoted entirely to the little-known art of antenna camouflage.You probably know antennas as the metal threads that send and receive radio waves so our internet and phones can function.Curious about his unconventional job, I met Hermes at a church in a small town 50 kilometres south of Amsterdam.One of the church towers had three antennas on it, covered in a red casing.“We often have to take a break [from building the camouflage] due to funerals and weddings,” he said. 
keywords: > 
  towers, dont, theyre, service, camouflage, disguises, guy, building, church, antennas, radio, 5g, antenna, cities, hermes, burn 
date: 1603376818.079488 
--- 
<div><p>Anton Hermes is the head of Camouflage BV, a Dutch company devoted entirely to the little-known art of antenna camouflage. You probably know antennas as the metal threads that send and receive radio waves so our internet and phones can function. Often, they&#8217;re placed in rural areas, but many hide in plain sight in our cities, thanks to companies like Camouflage disguising them as chimneys, windows and church bell towers.</p><p>The number of antennas in cities has skyrocketed in the past decade &#8211; in the Netherlands alone, it increased from 25,000 in 2013 to 47,000 in 2020. And according to Anton &#8220;Antenna Man&#8221; Hermes, we&#8217;ll only be adding more in the next five years, as the new 5G network rolls out (he said 5G antennas will be smaller in size, but there&#8217;ll be even more of them).</p><p>The first generation of cover-ups mostly resembled improbably tall and skinny trees, but these days they&#8217;re much harder to pick out. One serious limitation is that the camouflage has to be made out of polyester, since other building materials block radio waves.</p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Curious about his unconventional job, I met Hermes at a church in a small town&#160;50 kilometres south of Amsterdam. One of the church towers had three antennas on it, covered in a red casing. A fourth antenna had already been painted to look like the church&#8217;s brick wall and was almost invisible to the naked eye. Hermes said lots more were lurking inside the tower.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Inside the church, a morning funeral service had just wrapped up. &#8220;We often have to take a break [from building the camouflage] due to funerals and weddings,&#8221; he said. &#8220;It&#8217;s challenging sometimes.&#8221; Hermes opened a wooden door. &#8220;Only staff and phone service providers go here,&#8221; he said, taking the stairs up the church tower.</p>
</span><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Halfway up, he opened another door, unleashing a wave of heat and sound. The alcove stored the servers that connect to the antennas and make sure we&#8217;re all connected to the internet. Once we reached the top, right up next to the church bells, I was shown the antenna he&#8217;d just covered up. I had barely noticed it was there.</p>
</span></div>