--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.gannett-cdn.com/presto/2020/09/22/USAT/988ac340-a7f9-499d-a956-df746e1232ee-halloween-getting_candy.jpg?crop=1575,886,x0,y0&width=1200 
title: > 
  Tips to celebrate Halloween safely during the COVID-19 pandemic 
description: > 
  Costume masks are not substitutes for protective face masks.Instead, buy a Halloween-themed face mask or decorate one with a spooky theme.The CDC suggests having a candy scavenger hunt in your home or outside in the yard.Here's a downloadable Halloween scavenger hunt list geared to kids who need a more adventurous hunt.Download: Halloween scavenger hunt listAlso suggested are Zoom parties with friends, which include a costume contest. 
date: 1603083746.1609519 
--- 
<div><p class="dropcap">This <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/2020/09/11/is-halloween-canceled-2020-parents-and-cities-hope-not-medical-experts-warn-threat-of-coronavirus/5762685002/" target="_blank">Halloween,</a>&#160;there's one more monster lurking: the coronavirus.</p><p>Monday, the&#160;Centers for Disease Control and Prevention unveiled its<a href="https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/daily-life-coping/holidays.html#:~:text=If%20you%20may%20have%20COVID,to%20trick-or-treaters" target="_blank"> guidelines</a>&#160;for celebrating safely on Oct. 31.&#160;The health organization advised&#160;against traditional trick-or-treating this year and suggested lower-risk activities such as Halloween-themed scavenger hunts at home or placing prefilled treat bags at the end of your driveway for kids to pick up.&#160;</p><p class="custom-chapter-marker no-image sans-serif" id="parents-what-to"><h2 class="chapter-marker-header">Parents: What to consider before going out on Halloween</h2></p><p>Sandra Kesh, an&#160;infectious disease physician at&#160;Westmed Medical Group in&#160;Purchase, New York, says it's&#160;possible to safely trick-or-treat this year. She&#160;advises limiting trick-or-treating to three or four&#160;kids.</p><p class="oembed-frame">
</p><p>If heading out in groups, families&#160;should ask each other if&#160; they've been taking precautions and wearing masks.&#160;Parents can wipe down candy or let it sit for a couple of days if they are worried about surface transmission of the virus.</p><p>If COVID-19 is not well-controlled in your&#160;area, you should refrain from going out, Kesh says. Health departments and&#160;government websites typically offer public tracking of coronavirus infections, or you can ask your physician.&#160;Enclosed spaces, such as apartment buildings, should be avoided,&#160;she says. Keep things outdoors.&#160;</p><p>Kesh advises having "a very serious conversation with your kids that if you are going to take them trick-or-treating,&#160;the rules have to be followed and respected. Otherwise, the game is over." She recommends an adult chaperone even for older children to ensure safety protocols are followed.&#160;</p><p>Trick-or-treaters should use hand sanitizer&#160;regularly and avoid touching their face.</p><p class="oembed-frame">
</p><p class="custom-chapter-marker no-image sans-serif" id="crafts-make-face"><h2 class="chapter-marker-header">Crafts: Make face masks more fun for kids</h2></p><p>If you think&#160;the mask that came with your kid's&#160;Spider-Man or monster costume offers the same protection as a face mask, the CDC says think again.&#160;Costume masks are not substitutes for protective face masks. And&#160;the two should not be used together because&#160;the combination can make it hard to breathe.</p><p class="oembed-frame">
</p><p class="full-width-container"></p><p>Instead, buy a Halloween-themed face mask or&#160;decorate one&#160;with a spooky theme. Plain masks can be customized with Dracula's fangs or a wicked witch's nose. Use your imagination, and you'll have a fun mask your child may want to wear all the time.</p><p class="custom-chapter-marker no-image sans-serif" id="outdoor-activity-form"><h2 class="chapter-marker-header">Outdoor activity: Form a candy line</h2></p><p>The CDC says&#160;one-way trick-or-treating in which individually wrapped goodie bags are lined up for people&#160;to pick up while maintaining social distance (such as at the end of a driveway or at the edge of a yard) is a moderate-risk activity.&#160;</p><p class="oembed-frame">
</p><p>If you plan to participate in one-way trick-or-treating,&#160;wash your hands&#160;with soap and water for at least 20 seconds before and after preparing the bags, the CDC says.&#160;If you're sick, don't hand out candy. If you're in good health, be sure to wear a mask.&#160;</p><p>Several contactless delivery ideas have circulated online: a&#160;<a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/life/2020/09/16/halloween-and-covid-19-ohio-dads-viral-candy-chute-may-help/5818262002/" target="_blank">"candy chute"</a>&#160;&#8211; a 6-foot-long cardboard tube&#160;to slide candy to trick-or-treaters; a table stationed 6 feet away from the front door with individual bags of candy for children to grab or a large handmade spider web with candy taped to the strings.</p><p class="custom-chapter-marker no-image sans-serif" id="athome-activities-virtual"><h2 class="chapter-marker-header">At-home activities: Virtual costume parties and movies</h2></p><p>If you refrain from going out on Halloween because you're in a high-risk area, there are several ways you can celebrate the holiday at home.</p><p class="oembed-frame">
</p><p>The CDC suggests having a candy scavenger hunt&#160;in your home or outside in the yard.&#160; Here's a downloadable <a href="https://www.gannett-cdn.com/experiments/usatoday/pdfs/scavanger_hunt.pdf" target="_blank">Halloween scavenger hunt list</a> geared to kids who need a more adventurous hunt.</p><p><a href="https://www.gannett-cdn.com/experiments/usatoday/pdfs/scavanger_hunt.pdf" target="_blank"><strong>Download:</strong> Halloween scavenger hunt list</a></p><p>Also suggested are&#160;Zoom parties&#160;with friends, which include a&#160;costume contest. Netflix has a <a href="https://www.netflixparty.com/" target="_blank">free extension</a> that allows you and your friends to watch a movie at the same time online. Another fun way for children&#160;to get their candy at home is to have a&#160;pi&#241;ata as the&#160;ending to a spooktacular Halloween.</p><p>Contributing: Jennifer&#160;McClellan, Kim Willis, Leora Arnowitz and Erin Jensen, USA TODAY</p><p>SOURCE&#160;Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; USA TODAY research</p></div>