--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/politics/2020/10/05/TELEMMGLPICT000240325262_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqO65TkrT7BriBrd3fK6VEgzFCz-CXoLiAuLtBSY0KYYg.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  To defeat a resurgent Labour, Boris must show the power of Tory values 
description: > 
  If your values are out of line with those of key voters, you can’t get elected however brilliant and detailed your policies might be.Unfortunately for the Conservatives, Sir Keir Starmer has had this advice from elsewhere or has already been around long enough to know it.Sir Keir is not wasting his time announcing policies, but instead devoting himself to rebuilding values.So when Boris Johnson steps to the virtual rostrum on Tuesday afternoon, it is his challenge not merely to communicate his policies but to set them in the context of powerful Tory values.This theme is absolutely key, and if pursued relentlessly will keep the Tories on ground where Sir Keir cannot convincingly follow, unless he gets rid of most of his party. 
date: 1602354538.5480442 
--- 
If your values are out of line with those of key voters, you can’t get elected however brilliant and detailed your policies might be. I wish I had understood the sheer overriding importance of this when I was party leader two decades ago, for I would have given far less attention to policy launches and political tactics, and much more to simply and consistently expressing the enduring but updated values of the party. Whenever there is a Conservative Leader of the Opposition again – I hope not for a long time – the need to place values centre stage will be the first thing I will say to them.

Unfortunately for the Conservatives, Sir Keir Starmer has had this advice from elsewhere or has already been around long enough to know it. His speech to Labour’s virtual conference last week was replete with references to family and country. He expressed his pride at having been a public prosecutor and his excitement when he received a knighthood at Buckingham Palace. It was very obviously a speech that Jeremy Corbyn could not have given, but it was additionally about re-aligning the Labour Party with the abandoned voters of the north. Sir Keir is not wasting his time announcing policies, but instead devoting himself to rebuilding values. As an opposition leader at least, he knows what he is doing.

So when Boris Johnson steps to the virtual rostrum on Tuesday afternoon, it is his challenge not merely to communicate his policies but to set them in the context of powerful Tory values. This is a more difficult task for an incumbent Prime Minister, beset with a serious global crisis and multitude of daily decisions, but it will become an essential part of explaining the Government’s actions through all the unexpected buffetings and crises of the next few years.

It is also made easier by the fact that the Chancellor, Rishi Sunak, hit the nail of Tory values squarely on the head in his own speech on Monday: “I am committing myself to a single priority – to create, support and extend opportunity to as many people as I can….to create second chances, to see potential met, and to extend the awesome power of opportunity to all who seek it”. This theme is absolutely key, and if pursued relentlessly will keep the Tories on ground where Sir Keir cannot convincingly follow, unless he gets rid of most of his party. The Conservatives have been at their most successful when indelibly associated with the extension of opportunity, from Benjamin Disraeli all the way to David Cameron, through the triumphs of Margaret Thatcher.