--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/books/2020/10/17/TELEMMGLPICT000152020287_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bq78-3JRyJOO-eebKrgf55w-S6gvZ43nJq06FRqiUEyEY.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  To the End of the World by Rupert Everett, review: a candid memoir of his Wilde ride in showbusiness 
description: > 
  Everett was simply telling it like it was, even if it reflected badly on his own behaviour, which it often did, and to hell with the consequences.The honesty in this third volume – circling around his ambitious effort to produce, write, direct and star in The Happy Prince, a film based on the last years of Oscar Wilde – continues to be lacerating.The book ends as he flunks an audition for a big television series and faces up to the film’s disappointing reception.Sometimes one feels he is trying a tad too hard – the adjectives come thick and fast (what does he mean by “Wagnerian”?Everett’s obsession with Wilde began when he was aged five and his mother read him the tale of The Happy Prince at bedtime. 
date: 1603090905.4089391 
--- 
<div><p>Devoid of the usual actorly gush and gratuitous kiss-and-tell, Rupert Everett&#8217;s two previous volumes of memoir &#8211; Red Carpets and Other Banana Skins (2006) and Vanished Years (2012) &#8211; were widely admired for their often painful candour. Everett was simply telling it like it was, even if it&#160;reflected badly on his own behaviour, which it often did, and to&#160;hell with the consequences.</p>
<p>The honesty in this third volume &#8211; circling around his ambitious effort to produce, write, direct and star in The Happy Prince, a film based on the last years of <a href="https://www.telegraph.co.uk/theatre/what-to-see/did-oscar-wilde-ever-write-brilliantly-witty-put-down/">Oscar Wilde </a>&#8211; continues to be lacerating. But it strikes a more melancholy and jaded note than its predecessors: here is a man turning 60 and slowing up, increasingly disillusioned with both himself and his profession.</p>
<p>The book ends as he flunks an audition for a big television series and faces up to the film&#8217;s disappointing reception. Retreating to live with his elderly Brexit-supporting, Boris-admiring mother (rows ensue) and a newly acquired black labrador in rural Wiltshire, he muses on &#8220;the end of days&#8221; (this was presumably written before the virus struck) and resolves to &#8220;go with the flow and see where the tide takes me. Maybe it comes back round. Maybe not.&#8221; He quotes Julie Andrews, who once wisely said that &#8220;while you may love showbusiness with all your heart &#8211; dedicate your life and soul to it &#8211; showbusiness will never love you back.&#8221; If that&#8217;s what the incarnation of Mary Poppins thinks, what hope is there for anyone else?</p>
<p>But Everett is no snowflake, and never down for long. His resilient energy, sharp-eyed intelligence and keen sense of the ridiculous, as well as his capacity for short-term enjoyment of life&#8217;s sensual pleasures, infuse his writing with a warm glow. Sometimes one feels he is trying a tad&#160;too hard &#8211; the adjectives come thick and fast (what does he mean by &#8220;Wagnerian&#8221;?), the bons mots fall flat&#160;and the old-school drag-queeny banter can become wearing. But the sheer force of his personality is irresistible and there isn&#8217;t a dull moment.</p>
<p>Everett&#8217;s obsession with Wilde began when he was aged five and his mother read him the tale of The Happy Prince at bedtime. He calls this &#8220;her greatest contribution to my emotional development&#8221;, which may or may not be a compliment, and in adulthood he goes on to act in An Ideal Husband and The Importance of&#160;Being Earnest, as well as impersonating Wilde himself in David Hare&#8217;s play The Judas Kiss.</p>
</div>