--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-apps/imrs.php?src=https://arc-anglerfish-washpost-prod-washpost.s3.amazonaws.com/public/DSSGNEAQ24I6XNAERUPGOXWHAE.jpg&w=1440 
title: > 
  Trump attacks ‘Fauci and these idiots’ in call with campaign staff intended to boost morale as polls show him trailing Biden 
description: > 
  ADThe call, which some reporters were invited to listen in on, appeared to have been motivated by recent news stories about internal concerns about the president’s reelection chances and division within the president’s team.I am happy with my team,” Trump said, after denying friction among his top lieutenants.Trump also made repeated references to alleged communications between Biden’s son Hunter and foreign officials that have been reported in the New York Post in recent days.The Washington Post has not been able to independently verify the information in the New York Post reports.Campaign aides see the coronavirus — and the president’s handling of the pandemic — as their biggest political weakness, and Biden’s campaign has focused extensively on the issue. 
date: 1603135661.5789378 
--- 
<div><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;People are tired of listening to Fauci and these idiots,&#8221; Trump said, baselessly suggesting that Fauci&#8217;s advice on how best to respond to the outbreak was so bad it would have led to the deaths of hundreds of thousands more people.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;And yet we keep him,&#8221; Trump continued. &#8220;Every day he goes on television, there&#8217;s always a bomb, but there&#8217;s a bigger bomb if you fire him. But Fauci is a disaster.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">He added, &#8220;He&#8217;s been there for 500 years.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump also argued that the American people were no longer interested in taking precautions to prevent the spread of the coronavirus, even as the number of confirmed cases has been rising in a majority of states.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;People are tired of covid. I have the biggest rallies I&#8217;ve ever had. And we have covid. People are saying, &#8216;Whatever &#8212; just leave us alone,&#8217;&#8201;&#8221; Trump said, adding that he gets large crowds because people are tired of public health restrictions. The virus has killed <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/2020/national/coronavirus-us-cases-deaths/?itid=hp_pandemic-guide-box&amp;itid=lk_inline_manual_11" title="www.washingtonpost.com">more than 219,000 Americans</a>.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The call, which some reporters were invited to listen in on, appeared to have been motivated by recent news stories about internal concerns about the president&#8217;s reelection chances and division within the president&#8217;s team. It was a staff-wide &#8220;attaboy&#8221; call, with top aides and the president presenting a rosy case for his reelection and trying to boost what several aides said was flagging morale.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">He repeatedly told his campaign staff on the call that he had never felt more confident as a politician that he would win election &#8212; even though he said he was concerned two or three weeks ago during his hospital stay after contracting the coronavirus. He repeatedly attacked the news media but also said he hoped the media was listening to the call.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">He praised his senior team, naming aides one by one &#8212; campaign manager Bill Stepien, White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, campaign strategist Jason Miller &#8212; and attacked news stories that mentioned them in specific detail.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I love my team. I am happy with my team,&#8221; Trump said, after denying friction among his top lieutenants.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump ticked through individual states and bragged about the crowds he gets and the unspecified poll results he has seen, which he claimed were different from the voter &#8220;suppression polls&#8221; reported publicly.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I go to a rally I have 25,000 people,&#8221; Trump said, greatly exaggerating the size of his crowds while making a comparison with Democrat Joe Biden. &#8220;He goes to a rally, he has four people.&#8221; Most of Trump&#8217;s rallies are held outside at airports due to the pandemic.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump, phoning in from Las Vegas, sounded angry and defiant on the call and made a range of startling accusations and comments, including that Biden should be &#8220;in jail.&#8221;</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;He&#8217;s a criminal,&#8221; Trump said, without offering evidence what crime he had committed.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump also made repeated references to alleged communications between Biden&#8217;s son Hunter and foreign officials that have been reported in the New York Post in recent days. The newspaper said the information it reported was provided by Rudolph W. Giuliani, the president&#8217;s personal attorney, who has not shared a hard drive from a computer allegedly owned by Hunter Biden that the former New York mayor claims to possess with other news organizations. The Washington Post has not been able to independently verify the information in the New York Post reports.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;I think Joe Biden has a scandal coming up that will make him almost an impotent candidate,&#8221; he said. &#8220;This scandal is so big. And the only thing he has going is he has a corrupt press who will not write about it.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Much of the call was a venting session about the news media and pollsters. He spoke about the New York Times and The Washington Post with particular derision and threatened to take legal action against one particular poll over its results.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Trump made a number of dubious or false statements, including saying he was back at campaign rallies one day after he was released from the hospital. It was one week later. He again said he could lose the election only if it was &#8220;rigged&#8221; and made false claims about voter fraud. He exaggerated his record in terms he usually uses on the campaign trail.</p><p class="absolute z-0">AD</p><p class=""></p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The president said the New York Times has not reached out to him in two years, but the outlet interviewed him in August and like almost all news organizations regularly requests comment from the White House.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">The president seemed to have the greatest opprobrium for Fauci, who was critical of Trump and the White House in the &#8220;60 Minutes&#8221; interview, saying that the president&#8217;s conduct made it unsurprising that he caught the coronavirus and that the administration had tried to muzzle him. Fauci has a higher approval rating than the president, which has long rankled Trump, according to advisers who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe internal discussions.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">Campaign aides see the coronavirus &#8212; and the president&#8217;s handling of the pandemic &#8212; as their biggest political weakness, and Biden&#8217;s campaign has focused extensively on the issue. Trump&#8217;s message Monday &#8212; that Fauci is an &#8220;idiot&#8221; and people are &#8220;tired&#8221; of the virus &#8212; is not the message advisers have suggested he deliver.</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">In closing, he offered some advice for his staffers, saying they need to &#8220;work their asses off.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md ">&#8220;You have two weeks,&#8221; he said. &#8220;Don&#8217;t listen to anybody. Don&#8217;t even read the papers.&#8221;</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p><p class="font--body font-copy gray-darkest ma-0 pb-md bold">

</p></div>