--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/21/us/politics/21dc-drugcards-1/21dc-drugcards-1-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Trump Promised Seniors Drug Discount Cards. They May Be Illegal. 
description: > 
  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is the primary agency responsible for it, since the drug cards are being justified as a “demonstration project” under Medicare.The Treasury Department is involved in procuring the cards, according to officials familiar with the plan.The drug cards, which would be funded through a Medicare trust fund used to pay doctors, would help Medicare evaluate whether lowering drug co-payments could increase seniors’ use of needed drugs and lower their medical spending on doctor’s visits and hospitalizations.Researchers who study the Medicare drug benefit say the proposal has little value.Numerous studies have established that lowering the costs of certain drugs can improve patients’ use of medicines and reduce health spending. 
keywords: > 
  drugs, discount, medicare, seniors, officials, services, illegal, drug, cards, promised, program, trump, proposal, health 
date: 1603361936.9284134 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The proposal has already been stalled by multiple levels of review. The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services is the primary agency responsible for it, since the drug cards are being justified as a &#8220;demonstration project&#8221; under Medicare. But officials there believe that the staff of the health and human services secretary, Alex M. Azar II, should have to approve the plan as well, because of a recent memo the secretary wrote emphasizing his authority over new policy from health agencies.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Members of Mr. Azar&#8217;s staff have said such Medicare demonstration programs do not fall under the purview of that memo and do not require the secretary&#8217;s approval, according to a senior administration official.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">&#8220;Secretary Azar has always been supportive of ideas to lower American seniors&#8217; out-of-pocket drug costs &#8212; including the president&#8217;s co-pay card proposal and the plan to deliver discounts directly to seniors at the pharmacy counter,&#8221; Caitlin B. Oakley, a Department of Health and Human Services spokeswoman, said in a statement.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The project must also be cleared by officials at the White House Office of Management and Budget, which has traditionally required that such projects do not add to the deficit. The Treasury Department is involved in procuring the cards, according to officials familiar with the plan.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Health officials are trying to set up the program as a kind of experiment allowed in Medicare to test policy ideas that would improve health care and save the program money. The drug cards, which would be funded through a Medicare trust fund used to pay doctors, would help Medicare evaluate whether lowering drug co-payments could increase seniors&#8217; use of needed drugs and lower their medical spending on doctor&#8217;s visits and hospitalizations.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Researchers who study the Medicare drug benefit say the proposal has little value. <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://scholar.google.com/scholar?as_sdt=1,9&amp;q=copayment+medication+adherence&amp;hl=en&amp;as_vis=1" title="" rel="noopener noreferrer" target="_blank">Numerous studies</a> have established that lowering the costs of certain drugs can improve patients&#8217; use of medicines and reduce health spending. But the design of the proposed program, with a relatively small discount, no randomized control group and no targeting of the discounts toward particular populations or categories of drugs, is unlikely to teach Medicare much or save the program any money. The timing of the program, during a pandemic that has <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/09/11/upshot/pandemic-decline-preventive-care.html" title="">altered the normal patterns</a> of medical use, could also confound any results.</p></div>