--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/22/16/newFile-14.jpg 
title: > 
  Twitter says ‘no evidence’ of Trump hack after president accused of using ‘Maga2020!’ password 
description: > 
  An ethical hacker says he got access to Donald Trump’s Twitter account after guessing that his password was “maga2020!”.It only took the hacker five attempts to guess the president’s password," he said.Gevers was one of three hackers who accessed president Trump’s account in 2016, when the accounts password was reportedly “yourefired”."We proactively implemented account security measures for a designated group of high-profile, election-related Twitter accounts in the United States, including federal branches of government."This is not the first time that high-profile Twitter accounts have been compromised. 
keywords: > 
  maga2020, accounts, using, twitter, accused, presidents, users, hack, security, account, access, evidence, president, trump, password 
date: 1603385002.5091903 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pQGev lbdMzz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p>An ethical hacker says he got access to Donald Trump&#8217;s Twitter account after guessing that his password was &#8220;maga2020!&#8221;.</p><p>It only took the hacker five attempts to guess the president&#8217;s password," he said.</p><p>Victor Gevers, a security expert, had access to the president&#8217;s direct messages, could change his profile, and tweet, according to <a rel="nofollow" href="https://www.volkskrant.nl/nieuws-achtergrond/dutch-ethical-hacker-logs-into-trump-s-twitter-account~badaa815/"><i>de Volkskrant</i></a>, which reported that it had seen screenshots from the president&#8217;s account.</p><p></p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>Gevers alerted Mr Trump and US governmental services about the breach, and was then contacted by the Secret Service. </p><p></p><p>Mr Trump did not reply to an email sent to him by Gevers advising him to choose a more secure password.</p><p>The president&#8217;s account has reportedly been made more secure.</p><p>It had previously not had two-step authentication activated for the account, which requires that a login be verified via access to another personal device such as a physical security key or authenticator app on another computer.</p><p></p><p>Gevers was one of three hackers who accessed president Trump&#8217;s account in 2016, when the accounts password was <a rel="nofollow" href="https://www.vn.nl/tijdlijn-zo-verliep-de-hack-van-trump/">reportedly</a> &#8220;yourefired&#8221;.</p><p>&#8220;That we would succeed in doing it again so soon, was not planned,&#8221; he told <i>de Volkskrant</i>.</p><p>&#8220;I expected to be blocked after four failed attempts. Or at least would be asked to provide additional information.&#8221;</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>The hacker was shocked that it was possible for him to so easily access the president&#8217;s account.</p><p>&#8220;Why is it possible for someone from a different time zone to log into such an important account? Why doesn&#8217;t Twitter demand better passwords? If I can access his account, then foreign nations can do so as well, right? Why aren&#8217;t the persons who are supposed to protect the president informed when someone reports that his account is unsafe?&#8221; he said.</p><p><i>The Independent</i> has reached out to Gevers for verification of his claim.</p><p>"We've seen no evidence to corroborate this claim, including from the article published in the Netherlands today", Twitter said in a statement.&#160;</p><p>"We proactively implemented account security measures for a designated group of high-profile, election-related Twitter accounts in the United States, including federal branches of government."</p><p>This is not the first time that high-profile Twitter accounts have been compromised.</p><p>In July this year, a cryptocurrency scam that targeted several high-profile users, including <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/bitcoin-scam-twitter-verified-accounts-blocked-a9621686.html">Elon Musk and Bill Gates as well as Joe Biden, Barack Obama, Kanye West</a>.</p><p></p><p>Scammers were able to take control of users' accounts and ask for users to send $1,000 to a Bitcoin account with the promise that their deposit would be doubled in return.</p><p>Mr Trump recently claimed that &#8220;nobody gets hacked&#8221; at a campaign event in Tucson, Arizona.</p><p>"Nobody gets hacked. To get hacked you need somebody with 197 IQ and he needs about 15 percent of your password,&#8221; Mr. Trump said.</p><p></p><p>While the president was referencing the <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/americas/us-politics/cspan-steve-scully-lying-twitter-hack-anthony-scaramucci-b1055085.html">recent suspension of C-Span political editor Steve Scully</a>, it is unclear exactly what Mr Trump meant by his comment.</p><p><a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/gadgets-and-tech/news/google-gmail-account-hacked-password-security-phishing-keyloggers-hack-checkup-a8048416.html">Hackers can get credentials</a> via keyloggers (tools that secretly record every key you press), phishing (a method of tricking you into giving up your personal information), and third-party data breaches.</p><p class="sc-qPyvj iXzmwK"></p></div>