--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/09/18/business/00google-hfo/00google-hfo-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  U.S. Accuses Google of Illegally Protecting Monopoly 
description: > 
  Google didn’t immediately respond to a request for comment.The lawsuit comes two weeks after Democratic lawmakers on the House Judiciary Committee released a sprawling report on the tech giants that accused Google of controlling a monopoly over online search and the ads that come up when users enter a query.“A significant number of entities — spanning major public corporations, small businesses and entrepreneurs — depend on Google for traffic, and no alternate search engine serves as a substitute,” the report said.The scrutiny reflects how Google has become a dominant player in communications, commerce and media over the last two decades.That business is lucrative: Last year, Google brought in $34.3 billion in search revenue in the United States, according to the research firm eMarketer. 
date: 1603205009.1010928 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Google didn&#8217;t immediately respond to a request for comment.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The lawsuit comes two weeks after Democratic lawmakers on the <a class="css-1g7m0tk" href="https://www.nytimes.com/2020/10/06/technology/congress-big-tech-monopoly-power.html" title="">House Judiciary Committee released a sprawling report on the tech giants</a> that accused Google of controlling a monopoly over online search and the ads that come up when users enter a query.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">&#8220;A significant number of entities &#8212; spanning major public corporations, small businesses and entrepreneurs &#8212; depend on Google for traffic, and no alternate search engine serves as a substitute,&#8221; the report said. The lawmakers also accused Apple, Amazon and Facebook of abusing their market power.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The scrutiny reflects how Google has become a dominant player in communications, commerce and media over the last two decades. It controls 90 percent of the market for online searches, according to one estimate. That business is lucrative: Last year, Google brought in $34.3 billion in search revenue in the United States, according to the research firm eMarketer. That figure is expected to grow to $42.5 billion by 2022, the firm said.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">The lawsuit is the result of an investigation that has stretched for more than a year. Prosecutors have spoken with Google&#8217;s rivals in technology and media, collecting information and documents that could be used to build a case.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Mr. Barr, a former telecom executive who once argued an antitrust case before the Supreme Court, signaled that he would put the tech giants under new scrutiny at his confirmation hearing in early 2019. He said that &#8220;a lot of people wonder how such huge behemoths that now exist in Silicon Valley have taken shape under the nose of the antitrust enforcers.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">He put the investigation under the control of his deputy, Jeffrey Rosen, who in turn hired an aide from a major law firm to oversee the case and other technology matters. Mr. Barr&#8217;s grip over the investigation tightened when the head of the Justice Department&#8217;s antitrust division, Makan Delrahim, recused himself from the investigation because he represented Google in its acquisition of the ad service DoubleClick in 2007.</p></div>