--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/16/us/politics/00dc-havanasyndrome-1/merlin_169983978_7b0847ff-0eda-45b7-a274-9a663a4a530d-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  U.S. Diplomats and Spies Battle Trump Administration Over Suspected Attacks 
description: > 
  According to half a dozen American officials, State Department leaders realized that pursuing a similar course of action as they had in Cuba — including evacuating missions in China — could cripple diplomatic and economic relationships.With Cuba, Mr. Trump sought to reverse President Barack Obama’s détente.The battles have complicated their recovery and prompted government retaliation that might have permanently damaged their careers, according to interviews with more than 30 government officials, lawyers and doctors.“These injuries, and subsequent treatment by the U.S. government, have been a living nightmare for these dedicated public servants and their families,” said Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire.The U.S. government has not yet determined a cause or an actor.” 
date: 1603154203.9742413 
--- 
<div><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">According to half a dozen American officials, State Department leaders realized that pursuing a similar course of action as they had in Cuba &#8212; including evacuating missions in China &#8212; could cripple diplomatic and economic relationships.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">With Cuba, Mr. Trump sought to reverse President Barack Obama&#8217;s d&#233;tente. Jeffrey DeLaurentis, the chief of mission at the U.S. Embassy in Havana during the events, said the Trump administration&#8217;s move to withdraw staff members &#8220;dovetailed fortuitously with their objective on Cuba.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Those who fled China have spent more than two years fighting to obtain the same benefits given to the victims in Cuba and others attacked by foreign powers. The battles have complicated their recovery and prompted government retaliation that might have permanently damaged their careers, according to interviews with more than 30 government officials, lawyers and doctors.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">U.S. lawmakers have criticized what they call secrecy and inaction from the State Department and are pressing the agency to release a study it received in August from the National Academies of Sciences, which examined potential causes of the episodes.</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">&#8220;These injuries, and subsequent treatment by the U.S. government, have been a living nightmare for these dedicated public servants and their families,&#8221; said Senator Jeanne Shaheen, Democrat of New Hampshire. &#8220;It&#8217;s obvious how a U.S. adversary would have much to gain from the disorder, distress and division that has followed.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">Dr. David A. Relman, a Stanford University professor who is the chairman of the National Academies of Sciences committee that examined the cases, said it was &#8220;disheartening and immensely frustrating&#8221; that the State Department had refused to share the report with the public or Congress &#8220;for reasons that elude us.&#8221;</p><p class="css-158dogj evys1bk0">In a statement, the department said &#8220;the safety and security of U.S. personnel, their families and U.S. citizens is our top priority. The U.S. government has not yet determined a cause or an actor.&#8221;</p></div>