--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.usnews.com/dims4/USNEWS/0d47dbd/2147483647/resize/1200x%3E/quality/85/?url=http%3A%2F%2Fmedia.beam.usnews.com%2F03%2F37%2F78843f894e00a7c77784df562b09%2F201022-jobs-editorial.jpg 
title: > 
  Unemployment Claims Fell to 787,000 Last Week 
description: > 
  The number of people filing initial unemployment claims fell last week to 787,000, a positive sign for the struggling labor market.The figure, released Thursday by the Department of Labor, is a dip of 55,000 from the previous week.Claims have stabilized in the last two months between 800,000 and 900,000, with the exception of the first week of October, when the revised number of claims fell to 767,000.An additional 345,440 people filed for jobless benefits through the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program, bringing the total number of people filing for unemployment aid to more than 1.1 million.The Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program was created by Congress this spring to aid workers who would not otherwise qualify for regular unemployment benefits. 
keywords: > 
  787000, program, labor, fell, pandemic, unemployment, million, claims, week, house, number 
date: 1603378360.1034305 
--- 
<div><p>The number of people filing initial unemployment claims fell last week to 787,000, a positive sign for the struggling labor market. </p><p>The figure, released Thursday by the Department of Labor, is a dip of 55,000 from the previous week. The level of claims remains historically high. The pre-pandemic record sat just shy of 700,000. </p><p id="ac-lre-player"></p><p id="ad" class="ad lazy "></p><p>Claims have stabilized in the last two months between 800,000 and 900,000, with the exception of the first week of October, when the revised number of claims fell to 767,000. Claims have fallen gradually since peaking just below 7 million in March. </p><p>The number of people continually receiving normal unemployment benefits fell notably during the week ending Oct. 10, decreasing by more than 1 million to 8.4 million, suggesting that furloughed employees are being brought back to work and those who were laid off are finding other jobs. </p><p>An additional 345,440 people filed for jobless benefits through the Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program, bringing the total number of people filing for unemployment aid to more than 1.1 million. The Pandemic Unemployment Assistance program was created by Congress this spring to aid workers who would not otherwise qualify for regular unemployment benefits. </p><p>Top House Democrats and White House officials have been locked in negotiations over another coronavirus stimulus package, though the two sides have yet to strike a deal. </p><p>"The sluggish decline in UI claims is a stark reminder of what is at stake as stimulus negotiations drag on. Seven months into this crisis, millions of Americans still rely on unemployment benefits and millions more are exhausting benefits without another safety net. As millions are left treading water, all eyes are on Congress," Daniel Zhao, senior economist at Glassdoor, said in a statement.</p></div>