--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/19/16/GettyImages-1213154753.jpg 
title: > 
  US election: Trump attacks on Dr Fauci are working, poll finds 
description: > 
  But among Mr Trump's supporters, that figure drops under a scenario in which Mr Fauci endorses a vaccine.Mr Trump and Mr Fauci have traded barbs, again, over the last few days.If I listened to him, we'd have 500,000 deaths," Mr Trump said on the call, according to CNN.And then sure enough, it turned out to be a superspreader event," Mr Fauci said on CBS News' "60 Minutes" program.Despite the war of words, Mr Fauci and Mr Trump share a defensive posture about how the federal government has handled the pandemic. 
date: 1603205080.721983 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p>Amid an escalation in <a href="/topic/donald-trump">Donald Trump</a>'s <a href="/topic/feud">feud</a> with <a href="/topic/anthony-fauci">Anthony Fauci</a>, a new <a href="/topic/poll">poll</a> finds the <a href="/topic/president-0">president</a>'s attacks on the top <a href="/topic/us">US</a> infectious disease official have worked.</p><p>A special US election poll compiled for<i> </i><a href="/topic/independent"><i>The Independent</i></a> by <i>JL Partners</i> found a majority of Americans, 51 per cent, said they would be confident while taking a <a href="/topic/coronavirus-vaccine">coronavirus vaccine</a>. But among Mr Trump's supporters, that figure drops under a scenario in which Mr Fauci endorses a <a href="/topic/vaccine">vaccine</a>.</p><p></p><p>Fifty-four per cent of the president's backers express confidence in a vaccine before a Fauci endorsement is mentioned.</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>But after, that figure drops to 45 per cent.</p><p></p><p>Mr Trump and Mr Fauci have traded barbs, again, over the last few days.</p><p>The president called the scientist a "disaster" on a Monday call with campaign staffers, declaring Americans "tired" of hearing about Covid-19. He also alleged, without supporting evidence, that had Mr Fauci, not him, been in charge of the federal response, half a million Americans would be dead.</p><p></p><p>The president attacked Dr Fauci on a campaign call to staffers and said that if the scientist had been in charge more than 500,000 Americans would have died.</p><p class="sc-pIUCW jVhHsN">Your daily US politics newsletter</p><p class="sc-pQrCd hptqUu"><h4 class="sc-pYMCY iMNmXR"></h4><h4 class="sc-pYMCY sc-oUPCf hOgeNa"></h4></p><a class="nsc-register-btn" href="/register?noframe&amp;rid=READER_ID&amp;url=SOURCE_URL&amp;return=RETURN_URL&amp;regSourceSection=US%20Election%202020&amp;regSourceMethod=Article%2BSignpost&amp;newsletter=receiveInsideWashingtonNews">Sign up</a><p class="sc-pdkDa hKpBFR">Already have an account? </p><a href="/independent-premium#newsletters">Update preferences</a><p>"Fauci is a disaster. If I listened to him, we'd have 500,000 deaths," Mr Trump said on the call, according to CNN. "If there's a reporter on, you can have it just the way I said it, I couldn't care less."</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>The senior National Institutes of Health official got the first word, criticizing the president for a so-called "superspreader" event earlier this month at the White House to honour Supreme Court nominee Amy Coney Barrett. </p><p>Mr Fauci said he is "absolutely not" surprised the commander-in-chief fell ill after the event, where few attendees wore masks or followed social distancing guidelines during indoor and outdoor ceremonies.</p><p>"When I saw that on TV, I said, 'Oh my goodness. Nothing good can come out of that, that's got to be a problem.' And then sure enough, it turned out to be a superspreader event," Mr Fauci said on CBS News' "60 Minutes" program.</p><p>Despite the war of words, Mr Fauci and Mr Trump share a defensive posture about how the federal government has handled the pandemic.</p><p></p><p>"I don't think," he told CBS, "we could have possibly have done any more than that."</p><p><a rel="nofollow" href="https://www.jlpartners.co.uk/"><i>JL Partners</i></a> were commissioned to poll American voters on behalf of <i>The Independent </i>and spoke to 1,034 respondents across the U.S.&#160;</p><p>A slim majority of voters said they would be confident to take a Covid vaccine with 51% saying they would be very confident, 8 % neutral and 41 % either not very confident or not confident at all.&#160;</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>