--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f7dd74a282c500018c79163?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  VCs are nervous about a new proposed regulation that could make it harder for big tech companies to buy startups 
description: > 
  VCs say that practices like acquisitions, which the report wants to make more difficult for large tech companies to do, actually benefits startups.They also point to data showing that the rise in venture capital funding in recent years has accompanied the rise of big tech.To make it harder for big tech companies to snuff out young, upstart competitors by buying them, lawmakers want tech companies to prove that such acquisitions are necessary.But investors worry that this proposed rule, should it come to pass, will make it unnecessarily harder for major tech companies to acquire startups at all.Some venture capitalists took issue with House report data showing that the dominance of big tech has contributed to a decline in early-stage startup funding. 
keywords: > 
  innovation, data, tech, harder, buy, vcs, proposed, startups, companies, big, report, venture, regulation, industry, nervous, house 
date: 1603319345.491593 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>When House lawmakers released a 449-report earlier this month calling for new antitrust legislation against big tech companies, it lambasted Google, Apple, Amazon, and Facebook for contributing to an innovation "kill zone" that it said hurts startups.&#160;</li>
<li>But a growing number of VCs and industry leaders are challenging such claims, calling them misleading.</li>
<li>VCs say that practices like acquisitions, which the report wants to make more difficult for large tech companies to do, actually benefits startups.&#160;</li>
<li>They also point to data showing that the rise in venture capital funding in recent years has accompanied the rise of big tech.</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Buried in the <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/house-democrats-facebook-google-apple-amazon-are-monopolies-antitrust-report-2020-10">sprawling, 449-page Congressional report</a> spearheaded by House Democrats about regulating big tech is a recommendation that is making the venture capital world very nervous.&#160;</p><p dir="ltr">To make it harder for big tech companies to snuff out young, upstart competitors by buying them, lawmakers want tech companies to prove that such acquisitions are necessary.</p><p dir="ltr">"The merging parties could show that the transaction was necessary for serving the public interest and that similar benefits could not be achieved through internal growth and expansion," the recommendation in the report says.</p><p dir="ltr">But investors worry that this proposed rule, should it come to pass, will make it unnecessarily harder for major tech companies to acquire startups at all. A growing chorus of prominent VCs and industry leaders are saying that this proposed change could actually exacerbate the very problems that lawmakers are hoping to solve.</p><p dir="ltr">"The promise of a successful exit in the form of a buyout from a larger company is the very thing that drives much of the investment and innovation in the startup sector," Crunchbase's Marlize van Romburgh wrote in an <a href="https://news.crunchbase.com/news/startups-impact-antitrust-section-230/">editor's note</a> this week.</p><p dir="ltr">Others agree.</p><p dir="ltr">"Many founders start companies with the dream of selling them, and this dream has fueled innovation and investment for decades," Neo founder and angel investor Ali Partovi <a href="https://www.protocol.com/newsletters/pipeline/antitrust-startup-merger-rule-threat?rebelltitem=2#rebelltitem2" target="_blank" rel="noopener">told Protocol</a> earlier this month. "The idea that a deal is 'guilty until proven innocent' feels inconsistent with basic American principles."&#160;</p><p>Some venture capitalists took issue with House report data showing that the dominance of big tech has contributed to a decline in early-stage startup funding. It says VCs are reluctant to fund competitors of established companies in what the report characterizes as an innovation "kill zone."</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"That's just factually false," Founders Fund investor Keith Rabois <a href="https://twitter.com/technology/status/1314334849646366721">said of the data on Bloomberg TV</a>. "Since 2013, venture capital has been on an explosive tear...I've spent 20 years in Silicon Valley, this is the hottest venture market in my entire career, literally this month."&#160;</p><p>The report, authored by the House antitrust subcommittee following a years-long investigation into the four companies, cited data showing that the entrepreneurship rate, or the "share of startups and young firms" in the industry, fell from 60% in 1982 to 38% in 2011.</p><p>Venture deals, however, have <a href="https://techcrunch.com/2020/01/29/tracking-corporate-venture-capitals-rise-over-the-past-decade/">increased in the past decade</a> and have remained resilient this year, although, in 2020, they've been largely <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/new-funds-and-early-startup-funding-have-taken-2020-10">skewed towards large and late-stage startups, </a>according to data from Pitchbook and the National Venture Capital Association.</p><h2><strong>A delicate balance</strong></h2><p>Venture capitalists' objections to the report highlight the delicate role that companies like Facebook and Amazon play in helping the startup ecosystem flourish.</p><p>On the one hand, proposed regulations to weaken a tech giant's dominance of a particular industry could help startups in those industries.</p><p>For example, Paul Arnold, a General Partner at Switch Ventures, told the House Committee that he would never fund startups in markets already dominated by a large player, such as a new professional network that wanted to compete with Microsoft's LinkedIn.</p><p>"Venture capitalists are less likely to fund startups that compete against monopolies' core products," he <a href="https://judiciary.house.gov/uploadedfiles/competition_in_digital_markets.pdf">wrote in a statement</a> to the House Committee. "It is nearly impossible to overcome the monopoly LinkedIn enjoys. It is but one example of an innovation kill zone."</p><p>However, not all startups are trying to challenge such companies and often benefit from their network and resources. For example, Google's acquisition of analytics firm Looker for $2.6 billion earlier this year gave it an opportunity to expand its customer reach and gain the expertise of the Google Cloud team, <a href="https://looker.com/blog/google-closes-looker-acquisition">its CEO Frank Bien wrote</a>.&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-sai-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-sai-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>While Arnold's comments were used in the report to support new regulations against tech giants, <a href="https://www.protocol.com/newsletters/pipeline/antitrust-startup-merger-rule-threat?rebelltitem=4#rebelltitem4">he told Protocol</a> this month that the need to prevent market concentration had to be balanced with allowing startups to exist via acquisitions.</p><p>"If you veer too far on either side, I see innovation destruction," he said.&#160;</p><p>Lawmakers on the House Antitrust Subcommittee <a href="https://twitter.com/davidcicilline/status/1313593040305565697">say</a> they want to introduce new laws based on the report's recommendations in the coming weeks and months.&#160;</p> 
                  </div>