--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/09/business/09markets-brf-markets1/merlin_177882021_b9d75272-cd2a-4106-a3db-5ddb1e663d0f-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  Wall St. Looks Past Uncertainty, Remaining Hopeful for a Relief Deal: Live Updates 
description: > 
  ET Wall St. Looks Past Uncertainty, Remaining Hopeful for a Relief Deal: Live Updates S&P 500 U.S. % Dow U.S. % Oil W.T.I.% Nikkei Japan % Dax Germany % FTSE Britain % RIGHT NOW In Britain, the best of the economic recovery is already in the past.Confusion reigns on stimulus as talks continue.—Advertisement Continue reading the main storyThe Trump administration adds tariffs on nearly $2 billion of imported aluminum.The company said that a small number of employees who rely on the headquarter facilities would continue to work on-site. 
date: 1602262798.4762232 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 9, 2020, 12:21 p.m. ET Oct. 9, 2020, 12:21 p.m. ET Wall St. Looks Past Uncertainty, Remaining Hopeful for a Relief Deal: Live Updates S&P 500 U.S. % Dow U.S. % Oil W.T.I. % Nikkei Japan % Dax Germany % FTSE Britain % RIGHT NOW In Britain, the best of the economic recovery is already in the past.

Stocks rise after a tumultuous week as investors try to decipher prospects for more stimulus. Stocks were heading higher again on Friday, after a turbulent week in which President Trump injected confusion into talks between the Treasury Department and Congress on the prospects of a broad stimulus bill, to aid small businesses, local governments and out-of-work Americans, halting them and then restarting them again.

On Wall Street, the S&P 500 climbed nearly 1 percent, on track to end the week with a gain of more than 3 percent.

The gains on Friday came as Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a television interview that she hoped a deal would be reached soon, and Larry Kudlow, who advises the president on economic policy, said Mr. Trump had “approved a revised plan.”

But also on Friday, the Senate Majority leader, Mitch McConnell, cast doubt on the likelihood for a deal when he said the prospects for more aid were unclear, with the election just weeks away.

The mixed messages were just the latest in a tumultuous week in which Mr. Trump called off talks only to reverse himself two days later. That has left investors hopeful, but uncertain about the prospects for a deal.

Some investors have begun to look past the short-term uncertainty of whether an agreement will be reached before the election, instead focusing on the potential for a “blue wave” that sweeps Democrats into power and enables former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to enact a much larger stimulus spending plan.

The outcome of the first debate between Mr. Trump and Mr. Biden increased “the odds of first, Joe Biden becoming president, but also in line with the Democrats also taking the Senate,” said Shahab Jalinoos, global head of macro strategy with Credit Suisse in New York. “That’s obviously been a tailwind for markets since.”

The focus on another round of support from Washington comes as the number of virus cases around the world rises, and the recovery in major economies — including the United States — show signs of losing steam. Britain on Friday said its gross domestic product rose 2.1 percent in August over the month before, less than expected and the smallest monthly increase since the economy started expanding again in late spring. The British economy is still 9 percent smaller than it was before the pandemic. — Eshe Nelson and

Dead, alive, on life support? Confusion reigns on stimulus as talks continue. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said of talks with Republicans, “We want to continue the conversation.” Credit... Pete Marovich for The New York Times On Tuesday, the bipartisan stimulus talks were off, abruptly ended by a series of indignant tweets by President Trump. On Wednesday, there was a glimmer of hope when he suggested he might reconsider, and top negotiators haggled privately by phone over possible legislation. By Thursday, the president performed a complete about-face and suggested that a deal could be at hand — then turned around and derided Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California, the top Democrat in the discussions, as “Crazy Nancy.” Ms. Pelosi, for her part, teased the announcement on Friday of legislation establishing a commission to advise Congress on whether the president should be forcibly removed from office for mental or physical impairments. As tens of millions of Americans, schools and businesses watched the flurry of developments that could determine whether they would receive another infusion of desperately needed pandemic relief, confusion reigned in Washington about whether an elusive stimulus compromise was dead, alive, on life support or somewhere in between. What remained clear was that the political stakes, which have long imperiled a bipartisan bargain, have only heightened. And the collateral damage across the country has continued to mount in the absence of federal funding, with more than 800,000 Americans filing new applications for state benefits, before adjusting for seasonal variations. In separate appearances on Thursday, Mr. Trump and Ms. Pelosi insisted that talks were continuing, with the president suggesting that negotiators were now discussing $1,200 stimulus checks in addition to a potential aid measure for airlines to prevent tens of thousands of workers from being furloughed or laid off. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

The Trump administration adds tariffs on nearly $2 billion of imported aluminum. An aluminium factory in India in 2019. India is one of the countries on which the United States levied new tariffs. Credit... Dhiraj Singh/Bloomberg The Trump administration levied tariffs on $1.96 billion of imported aluminum sheet from 18 countries on Friday, saying that foreign producers were selling their products at unfairly low prices and undercutting American manufacturers. In an interview on Fox Business Network on Friday morning, Wilbur Ross, the secretary of commerce, called the move “the largest and most far-reaching case that our department has brought in more than 20 years.” He said Germany would feel the largest impact, followed by Bahrain. Mr. Ross traced part of the problem back to China. He said China was dumping its excess capacity into other markets, which would then find its way into the United States. “The net effect is a lot of dumping in the U.S., and that’s what we’re clamping down on,” he said. The United States, which imported $15.9 billion of aluminum in 2019, has already imposed a 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum from many countries, though Canada, Mexico and others have earned certain exemptions. Some American aluminum makers support the tariffs, but the levies have angered many manufacturers that make cars, boats, recreational vehicles, washing machines and other products, and now have to pay higher prices for their raw materials. The U.S. government typically brings dozens of trade cases against foreign countries every year for unfairly subsidizing and pricing their products. But the Trump administration has been particularly aggressive in pursuing and welcoming such cases from various industries, and has initiated 286 of them so far during its term. The tariffs, which went into effect immediately, apply to products from Bahrain, Brazil, Croatia, Egypt, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Italy, Oman, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan and Turkey. The tariff rates vary by country and range up to 353 percent of the cost of the good. Several U.S. aluminum manufacturers requested the tariffs, including Arconic, Novelis Corporation, Texarkana Aluminum and Constellium Rolled Products Ravenswood. The Commerce Department will begin collecting the levies immediately, but they could still be struck down and retroactively reimbursed. The U.S. International Trade Commission will make its final decision on the case on April 5, 2021, the Commerce Department said. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Catch Up: Disney will move Pixar’s ‘Soul’ to its streaming service. The next Pixar movie, “Soul,” will be made available online instead of in theaters because of the pandemic, the Walt Disney Company said. The film, about a jazz musician who is magically transported to an otherworldly place where personalities are created, will arrive on Disney+ on Dec. 25 at no additional cost to subscribers (unlike the recent “Mulan,” which was accessible for a $30 surcharge). “Soul” had been scheduled for theatrical release on Nov. 20.

Some chief executives have made a killing in the stock market this year. Some corporate executives have seen their wealth soar this year, thanks to stock awards that have gained in value as the stock market rebounded from its plunge at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Edward W. Stack, the chief executive of Dick’s Sporting Goods, and William Lynch, president of Peloton, for example, are each sitting on paper gains of over $60 million on stock-based awards they mostly received in the first three months of the year, according to an analysis by Institutional Shareholder Services.

And Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive of Moderna, a drug maker developing a coronavirus vaccine, received options in February that have appreciated by nearly $30 million.

Some executives at companies that have been hit hard by the pandemic have still done well. In March, William J. Hornbuckle, chief executive of MGM Resorts International, gave up the remainder of his 2020 salary in exchange for restricted stock units worth $700,000, the amount of his forgone salary. After MGM stock recovered somewhat from the lows it plumbed in March, that grant is worth $1.3 million on paper — and all his 2020 awards have appreciated by a combined $4 million.

Not all executives have gains on their 2020 grants, because many companies have struggled in the pandemic. ISS found that 1,675 “named executive officers,” or the executives who appear in proxies, had gains while 1,388 had losses, as of Wednesday’s closing stock prices. The average appreciation was nearly $1.5 million and the average loss $827,000. One reason stock awards have appreciated so much is that some of the grants were made when the stock market was close to its lowest point for the year. Of course, many executives are also sitting on gains on stock they got in earlier years. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Target and Ford say employees can work from home through June. Target said it was using this time as an opportunity to reimagine the role of its office in a post-pandemic era. Credit... Sue Ogrocki/Associated Press Target and Ford Motor on Thursday said they would allow employees to continue to work from home through June 2021, as coronavirus cases continue to climb in the United States and companies struggle to figure out how to arrange offices in a way that keeps workers socially distanced and safe. Target’s decision, announced in a letter to staff, applies just to employees at its headquarters, in Minneapolis. The company said that a small number of employees who rely on the headquarter facilities would continue to work on-site. The retailer also said it was using this time as an opportunity to reimagine the role of its office in a post-pandemic era. “As we look to the future, our headquarters environment will include a hybrid model of remote and on-site work,” Target wrote in the letter. “This will allow for the flexibility many of you have come to value, while also providing opportunity for the in-person connection and collaboration that’s central to our team and culture.” Ford also said its decision would apply to its roughly 32,000 employees in North America who are already working remotely. The announcements by Ford and Target come after several other companies, including Google, Uber and Slack, have decided that employees need not return to the office until at least next summer. Some companies have tried bringing employees back to the office, but not always successfully. Last month, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan had to send some workers back home after employees tested positive for the virus. —