--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/films/2020/10/16/TELEMMGLPICT000241825597_trans_NvBQzQNjv4BqOLSIyYLmkFq7W-G_CKMXcW7eH2Kc4NkyUIEESc4YZBw.jpeg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  Was Marlene Dietrich a monster? 
description: > 
  If Marlene Dietrich went out of her way to suppress feelings of common humanity and ordinary kindness, it’s because being a great star requires an all-consuming monstrosity.In her films and, latterly, concerts, Dietrich embodied an erotic languor, a moody exasperation.It is a kind of knowing that you are all right in every way, mentally, physically and in appearance.Whatever the occasion or the situation, you are equal to it.”She was born in 1901 in Berlin, the daughter of a Prussian officer, Louis Otto Dietrich, who was killed on the Eastern Front.Her mother, Josephine, was, says Riva, “a cold woman, set in her ways, given to commands, ­dictums.” Dietrich was obviously a chip off the old block, though admittedly more artistic. 
date: 1603090907.2904675 
--- 
<div><p>If Marlene Dietrich went out of her way to suppress feelings of common humanity and ordinary kindness, it&#8217;s because being a great star requires an all-consuming monstrosity. She was never &#173;spontaneously warm. She never laughed &#8211; glacial stares were more her speciality. She never once stood in a queue, not even passport &#173;control. She was always amazed, when seeing normal people in crowded places, such as airports or hotel lobbies, at just how ugly they were: &#8220;No wonder they pay us so much money.&#8221;</p>
<p>Though Dietrich was an egomaniac &#8211; who, as her daughter once reported, &#8220;rarely talked with anyone. That would have required a certain interest in another&#8217;s opinion&#8221; &#8211; we can still appreciate the unique artistry, the legend that remains Marlene: &#8220;the shimmering look, the incredible body, the hypnotic gaze from beneath those famous hooded lids,&#8221; as her daughter put it, in classic films such as The Blue Angel, Shanghai Express and The Devil Is a Woman.</p>
<p>She was not a relaxed or natural performer, however. Her daughter, Maria Riva, was right to describe the effect as a &#8220;manufactured flamboyance&#8221; &#8211; the beads and sequins, egret feathers, silk stockings, white chiffon and full-length ermine coats. Dietrich&#8217;s hair would be backlit, to give it a halo. None who heard it forgot the world-weary lisping Teutonic voice, so sad, so full of yearning. And so camp.</p>
<p>In her films and, latterly, concerts, Dietrich embodied an erotic languor, a moody exasperation. Often dressed up in top hat, white tie and tails, and men&#8217;s trousers, she achieved the look of transgender fluidity long before it became &#173;fashionable. This was all part of her very modern seductiveness, her belief that &#8220;glamour is assurance. It is a kind of knowing that you are all right in every way, mentally, physically and in appearance. Whatever the occasion or the situation, you are equal to it.&#8221;</p>
<p>She was born in 1901 in Berlin, the daughter of a Prussian officer, Louis Otto Dietrich, who was killed on the Eastern Front. The actress had a solid bourgeois background, with servants to leave the house gleaming. Her mother, Josephine, was, says Riva, &#8220;a cold woman, set in her ways, given to commands, &#173;dictums.&#8221; Dietrich was obviously a chip off the old block, though admittedly more artistic. At boarding school, playing a Handel sonata, she was pounced upon by the music professor, as &#8220;the urge to touch his lovely pupil was so overwhelming.&#8221;</p>
</div>