--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.telegraph.co.uk/content/dam/family/2020/10/16/SD-hattie_1_trans_NvBQzQNjv4Bq8a-22Vlh2P_oUKqIJlQj6yweFkugFQyTgXrFvJJJBhM.jpg?impolicy=logo-overlay 
title: > 
  We love our new neighbours, but will they ever accept us as Norfolk natives? 
description: > 
  The proportion of buyers with London postcodes registering with estate agencies outside of the capital almost doubled in April.By the summer, Rightmove was registering a 126 per cent increase in city residents searching for homes in villages.Especially in the middle of a pandemic that, not too long ago, blossomed a bloody red in the densely populated neighbourhood I’m vacating.At 6pm, our next-door neighbour cooked us all supper, then shooed us out into the pitch black with a borrowed torch.Sure, it’s traumatic and hideously painful, but once the wheels are in motion, it will definitely happen, hypnobirthing techniques or no. 
date: 1603072174.6060271 
--- 
<div><p>The proportion of buyers with London postcodes registering with estate agencies outside of the capital almost doubled in April. By the summer,<a href="https://www.rightmove.co.uk/"> Rightmove</a> was registering a 126 per cent increase in city residents searching for homes in villages.</p>
<p>And what of these villages? Do we imagine they&#8217;re climbing atop hay bales, waving WI-woven welcome banners and roasting the village pig to celebrate the arrival of this invading army, clad in blindingly shiny Hunter boots and bearing a pathological inability to close gates, let alone imagine a world in which one cannot buy halloumi at&#160;11pm?</p>
<p>Even I possess just about enough self-awareness to understand that the countryside&#8217;s appeal to me&#160;may be rather greater than my appeal to the countryside. Especially in the middle of a pandemic that, not too long ago, blossomed a bloody red in the densely populated neighbourhood I&#8217;m vacating.</p>
<p>And so we have approached our new community with a mix of excitement and trepidation, fighting off the urge to pull a Withnail and I (you remember the scene &#8211; the desperate, drenched and distinctly metropolitan Richard E Grant greeting a farmer with the immortal words: &#8220;Listen, we&#8217;re bona fide. We&#8217;re not from London. Could we have some fuel and wood?&#8221;)</p>
<p>Friends of ours who moved to Norfolk a decade ago tell of evangelically accosting a new neighbour on their first morning and eulogising about the beauty of the landscape. &#8220;Yeah, it&#8217;s all right,&#8221; he replied, leaning on his garden fork. &#8220;As long as&#160;you keep yourself to yourself.&#8221;</p>
<p>Our welcome was both warmer than that, and less intense than research revolving largely around <a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/b006qpgr">The&#160;Archers</a> might have you imagine. On the doorstep when we arrived was a basket of vegetables. Later, a&#160;bunch of sunflowers appeared unbidden.</p>
<p>At 6pm, our next-door neighbour cooked us all supper, then shooed us out into the pitch black with a borrowed torch. Over the next few days, a bottle of prosecco, a jar of honey, a few friendly faces and a short but carefully curated list of the best local pubs and shops had arrived.</p>
<p>I&#8217;m reminded of becoming a parent. You take the antenatal classes, devote hours to the mastery of breathing techniques and birth plans. And no one, not once, lets on that birth is not the difficult bit.</p>
<p>Sure, it&#8217;s traumatic and hideously painful, but once the wheels are in motion, it will definitely happen, hypnobirthing techniques or no. It&#8217;s the raising of the subsequent baby that involves relearning every single one of your basic life&#160;skills.</p>
<p>Similarly, moving. You pour obsessive attention into survey reports and piles of money into legal fees. Then the day comes, and you realise that becoming part of a new community, truly coming to know it and be accepted into it, isn&#8217;t about buying a house at all. It&#8217;s about all the work that comes after.</p>
<p>So we&#8217;ve been returning visits and invitations. We offer to pick things up when we do a supermarket run. We drive miles to get a particular local newspaper for a shielding neighbour. Strange, given that we lived for a decade on our last street, and knew perhaps 10&#160;per cent of its residents when we left. But good.</p>
<p>A city may be packed with millions of people with millions of backgrounds, but that very fact enables you to cherry-pick a community that looks, sounds, votes and dresses their children just like you do. Much like Twitter is flooded with so many voices that you end up in your own echo chamber.</p>
<p>Yes, a village is a geographical bubble, but over the past weeks I&#8217;ve spent more time with people of a different generation, politics and tastes than I did in a lifetime in London. And what I feared might be stifling is actually liberating. We&#8217;re putting down roots, slowly but quite literally. Tomorrow, our 86-year-old neighbour is going to teach our six-year-old how to plant a cherry tree.</p>
<h5>Who is friendlier, country villages or cities? Let us know in the comments section below</h5>
</div>