--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/19/21/GettyImages-1229170776.jpg 
title: > 
  West Brom vs Burnley result, final score and match report 
description: > 
  West Brom and Burnley fought out a gritty stalemate for the Premier League's first goalless draw of the season.Karlan Grant was denied a debut goal by a tight offside call while Chris Wood hit the bar for the visitors.A lack of conviction from both teams was no surprise, although the Baggies showed more early urgency.Filip Krovinovic's shot skidded wide in the opening three minutes while Grant, a new £15million signing from Huddersfield, fired off target.Ashley Westwood's perfect cross found Wood unmarked at the far post but the striker headed against the top of the bar. 
date: 1603156973.9009483 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pAoIE JavQY"></p><p class="sc-pIkGh dCBfFP"></p><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p><a href="/topic/west-brom">West Brom</a> and <a href="/topic/burnley">Burnley</a> fought out a gritty stalemate for the Premier League's first goalless draw of the season.</p><p>The pair had shipped a combined 21 goals in their opening seven games but the 47th match of the top-flight campaign ended 0-0 at The Hawthorns.</p><p></p><p>Karlan Grant was denied a debut goal by a tight offside call while Chris Wood hit the bar for the visitors.</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>The pair remain winless in the league this season with Burnley claiming their first point after three opening defeats which was enough to lift them off the foot of the table.</p><p></p><p></p><p>But a draw does little to kick-start either side's season as Albion continue to wait for their first victory since promotion, despite an improved performance.</p><p>A lack of conviction from both teams was no surprise, although the Baggies showed more early urgency.</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>Filip Krovinovic's shot skidded wide in the opening three minutes while Grant, a new &#163;15million signing from Huddersfield, fired off target.</p><p>Albion bossed possession without seriously breaking through a robust Burnley backline.</p><p>But despite Albion's territorial dominance, it was the Clarets who created the best chance of a forgettable first half after 26 minutes.</p><p>Kevin Long wanted a penalty after Darnell Furlong's challenge but when the ball was returned into the box Ashley Barnes' fierce angled drive was beaten away by Sam Johnstone.</p><p>Those who had paid the controversial &#163;14.95 to watch on TV may have had buyers' remorse during the first half but Albion fans had cause, at least briefly, to jump off the sofa nine minutes before the break.</p><p></p><p>Grant had been quiet but at least showed his threat when Grady Diangana picked him out to head in, only for his celebrations to be cut short by an offside flag.</p><p>Boss Slaven Bilic had called for the Baggies to be more aggressive after a limp 2-0 loss at Southampton and they remained more proactive after the break.</p><p></p><p>Albion continued to find promising positions only to be let down by their final ball but, with Burnley on the back foot, found plenty of encouragement.</p><p>And it was only dogged defending which denied them an opener after 57 minutes when Diangana's exquisite turn opened up space.</p><p><a href="/topic/nick-pope">Nick Pope</a> saved well to spark a scramble as Branislav Ivanovic's shot was blocked and Matheus Pereira's effort was parried by Pope before the danger cleared.</p><p>It was a rare flashpoint with the escape forcing the Clarets into life and they should have opened the scoring five minutes later.</p><p></p><p>Ashley Westwood's perfect cross found Wood unmarked at the far post but the striker headed against the top of the bar.</p><p>The Baggies had become ragged and Johnstone came to their rescue next when he parried Barnes' header.</p><p>Burnley's second-half improvement warranted a point yet they still needed Pope to turn Pereira's shot behind with 13 minutes left to secure a result.</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>