--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://video-images.vice.com//articles/5f89b035421f4900972b3d15/lede/1602859125952-10132020goinghomeforamonthholidayscv.jpeg?image-resize-opts=Y3JvcD0xeHc6MXhoO2NlbnRlcixjZW50ZXImcmVzaXplPTEyMDA6KiZyZXNpemU9MTIwMDoq 
title: > 
  What to Do If You're Dreading a Whole Month at Home for the Holidays 
description: > 
  Enter: your mom’s dream of you coming home for a whole month—Thanksgiving, Christmas, and are you sure you can’t stay for New Year’s?You probably also know your usual reaction (yelling back, storming off, or silently gnawing the side of your cheek) won’t help, either.It’s not that you don’t love your family—you just don’t want poor communication patterns or useless arguments to outweigh the good moments.Unless your family is perfectly aligned in their political views, or somehow has a great track record of never sharing them (how??), the timing of going home for a month right after one of the most significant elections in U.S. history might be weighing on you. 
date: 1603116302.4974544 
--- 
<div><p>If you&#8217;re someone who lives far away from your family of origin&#8212;far enough to usually skip the Thanksgiving trip and just go home for Christmas&#8212;this year might be a little different than usual. Flying or driving a long distance for only a few days may not feel worthy of the hassle of getting tested and quarantining for two weeks upon return, not to mention the risk. Enter: your mom&#8217;s dream of you coming home for a whole month&#8212;Thanksgiving, Christmas, and are you sure you can&#8217;t stay for New Year&#8217;s?</p><p>&#8220;After four days in our parents&#8217; house, we tend to start regressing and acting like a teenager again, so be realistic about the patterns that you already know are there,&#8221; Andrea Bonior , a therapist and author of Detox Your Thoughts , told VICE. &#8220;It really is about figuring out what you're most afraid of, and what you can anticipate happening, and then thinking about the best ways to build in a pause, or strategize responses in difficult situations.&#8221;</p><p>You probably already have a vague image of what you reaaaaaaally don&#8217;t want to experience when you&#8217;re home. It could be your parents arguing and looping you into their conflict; your mom criticizing your appearance (or, in her words, &#8220;helping you&#8221;); or your dad paraphrasing Fox News headlines over breakfast. You probably also know your usual reaction (yelling back, storming off, or silently gnawing the side of your cheek) won&#8217;t help, either.</p><p>If you just deeply exhaled in agreement, but also genuinely want to go home, here are some things you can do to get yourself ready (without stressing yourself out even more).</p><p>While this plan makes logistical sense (you&#8217;ll work remotely; you can save some money), emotionally, it might already feel like a low-humming stress soundtrack in your life, even if the trip is weeks away. Maybe it&#8217;s because you haven&#8217;t been home for that long since high school, or because you usually have a hard four-day limit when it comes to tolerating your dad&#8217;s relentless pessimism, or because you won&#8217;t be able to take a breather at your best friend&#8217;s house like you usually do. It&#8217;s not that you don&#8217;t love your family&#8212;you just don&#8217;t want poor communication patterns or useless arguments to outweigh the good moments.</p><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><h2 class="article__body-heading__heading heading2"><span><p>Practice switching into &#8220;observing mode&#8221; if you feel baited or pushed into arguing.</p>
</span></h2><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>If you have a family member who finds any kind of healthy boundary-setting on your part &#8220;disrespectful,&#8221; and will do anything to pull you into an argument, your emotional survival toolbox might need to expand a bit.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>In clinical psychologist Lindsay C. Gibson&#8217;s <a href="https://twitter.com/crissles/status/1309186342358839298">iconic</a> book <a href="https://www.amazon.com/dp/B00TZE87S4/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&amp;btkr=1">Adult Children of Emotionally Immature Parents</a>, she notes the importance of switching to &#8220;observing mode&#8221; when you sense yourself getting upset. It&#8217;s essentially a practice in detaching as soon as you see someone needling you in an attempt to get you to snap at them. Observing means making the choice to view the situation like an outsider might, and recognizing that certain statements are meant to nudge or shock you.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Bonior agreed with this sentiment, and suggested you create a sort of mantra around the idea that your &#8220;best self&#8221; won&#8217;t let things escalate (especially since you&#8217;ll probably be the one blamed if a fight erupts). That might look like calmly saying you agree to disagree, no matter how much you disagree or how frustrated you are. Eventually, the other person will likely tire out from trying to elicit a response.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Of course, shouldering the burden of keeping the peace is a lot to take on, which is why Bonior strongly encouraged taking a walk or going to read a book if you&#8217;re starting to feel drained. Anything you can do to further detach and give yourself space is crucial.</p>
</span><h2 class="article__body-heading__heading heading2"><span><p>Decide how you&#8217;ll handle impossible arguments&#8212;like politics&#8212;and&#160; stick to the plan.</p>
</span></h2><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>Unless your family is perfectly aligned in their political views, or somehow has a great track record of never sharing them (how??), the timing of going home for a month right after one of the most significant elections in U.S. history might be weighing on you. It can be doubly hard when you feel pressure to push back on bad-faith views, while knowing full well that it&#8217;ll only lead to a screaming match each time.</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p><span class="abc__textblock size--article"><p>If you know you&#8217;ll never get anywhere because your family is committed to misunderstanding you, Bonior suggests simply having a conversation beforehand about avoiding politics or other similarly-polarizing discussions, and then being disciplined about it. But, she said, this really &#8220;There's a huge difference between families that know that [certain topics are] a hot button, and don't want to get into it,&#8221; she added, &#8220;versus families where it's a hot button, but one person steamrolls the other.&#8221;</p>
</span><p class="abc__textblock size--article"></p></div>