--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/s3fs-public/thumbnails/image/2020/07/23/12/istock-1214300212.jpg 
title: > 
  What are the new places you need to wear a face mask in England? 
description: > 
  People were already required to wear a face covering in shops and supermarkets, as well as on public transport.Coffee shops and takeawaysPeople still need to wear a face covering in coffee shops in England under regulations, which came into effect on 24 July.SupermarketsSupermarkets have long been a destination where customers have to wear face masks, unless they are exempt.“Therefore it is appropriate that you should be wearing a face mask.”Public transportSince 15 June, anyone travelling by bus, train, ferry or plane in England has been required to wear a face covering.It is also compulsory to wear face coverings on all public transport in Scotland, Wales and northern Ireland. 
date: 1603132140.2002308 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p>New rules on face coverings were announced by the prime minister on Tuesday 22 September, increasing the number of places in England where it is mandatory to wear a covering or face a penalty fine of &#163;200 for a first-time offence.</p><p>People were already required to <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/news/uk/politics/coronavirus-face-coverings-masks-mandatory-when-shops-pubs-a9617041.html">wear a face covering in shops and supermarkets</a>, as well as on <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/uk-face-mask-rules-lockdown-changes-today-public-transport-fine-a9565936.html">public transport</a>.</p><p></p><p>On 22 September, Boris Johnson told the House of Commons, this will now be extended to taxis, private hire vehicles, as well as to hospitality venues when you&#8217;re not eating or drinking - for example walking to your table or the toilet during a meal - previously it only applied if you were getting a takeaway.</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>Mr Johnson said the country had reached a &#8220;perilous turning point&#8221; and the government was now acting on the &#8220;principle that a stitch in time saves nine&#8221;.&#160;</p><p></p><p>So, where exactly should you be wearing a face mask? Here is everything you need to know.&#160;</p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>Coffee shops and takeaways</strong></h3></p><p>People still need to wear a face covering in coffee shops in England under regulations, which came into effect on 24 July.</p><p></p><p>The <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/department-of-health-and-social-care" class="body-link">Department of Health and Social Care</a> confirmed face coverings will be needed in shops such as <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/PretAManger" class="body-link">Pret a Manger</a> if people intend to take their food and coffee away.</p><p>A Department of Health and Social Care spokesperson said: &#8220;From Friday 24 July, it will be mandatory to wear a face covering in shops and supermarkets, as is currently the case on public transport.</p><p class="sc-oTaAA eBoKzo"></p><p>&#8220;If a shop or supermarket has a cafe or a seating area to eat and drink, you can remove your face covering in that area.&#8221;</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>Cabinet minister <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/brandon-lewis">Brandon Lewis</a> clarified the statement during an appearance on the BBC&#8217;s <i>Breakfast</i> programme, saying people will have to wear masks in a takeaway outlet, depending on why you&#8217;re going.</p><p>&#8220;The differences that people may not have been aware of, and will be outlined in the regulations today, is if you are going into a takeaway and you are eating in somewhere that&#8217;s got a takeaway, then that is like hospitality &#8211; you are eating, it&#8217;s not practical to wear a face mask, we recognise that,&#8221; he said.</p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3>Pubs and restaurants</h3></p><p>Previously you only had to wear a face covering if you were using hospitality as a takeaway - with ministers saying it was impractical to wear them in restaurants and pubs.</p><p>On 22 September, Mr Johnson said now customers should be wearing masks when moving around hospitality businesses, such as walking to their table or visiting the toilet.</p><p>The masks should only be removed when eating or drinking and sat at your table (table service is now mandatory in all establishments too). &#160;This will happen from Monday 28 September.</p><p></p><p>This update also applies to staff who now should be wearing masks when working in hospitality or retail services, he said.</p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>Supermarkets</strong></h3></p><p>Supermarkets have long been a destination where customers have to wear face masks, unless they are exempt.</p><p></p><p>In a statement shared on Twitter, <a href="https://twitter.com/waitrose/status/1286299357063634944" rel="nofollow" target="_blank" class="body-link">Waitrose said</a>: &#8220;We're asking customers in our English and Scottish stores to wear a face covering while shopping. All customers &#8211; apart from children under 11 and those with disabilities or breathing difficulties - should wear a face mask, scarf or other covering.&#8221;</p><p>Tesco has also confirmed that its customers will be required to wear face masks, writing on <a href="https://twitter.com/Tesco/status/1286269836172103681" rel="nofollow" target="_blank" class="body-link">Twitter</a>: &#8220;To help keep you and our colleagues safe in-store and reflect the latest government guidance, customers will be required to wear face coverings while shopping from Friday, 24 July. Face coverings will be available to purchase in-store and online (while stocks last).&#8221;</p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>Retail outlets and shopping centres</strong></h3></p><p>Face masks are also compulsory in all retail shops and enclosed shopping centres.</p><p>During a <a href="https://www.gov.uk/government/speeches/face-coverings-to-be-mandatory-in-shops-and-supermarkets-from-24-july#:~:text=Under%20the%20new%20rules%2C%20people,covering%20lies%20with%20the%20individual." rel="nofollow" target="_blank" class="body-link">speech in the House of Commons</a>, Mr Hancock said the new rules were being introduced to &#8220;give people more confidence to shop safely, and enhance protections for those who work in shops&#8221;.</p><p>&#8220;The British Retail Consortium has said that together with other social distancing measures, face coverings can make shoppers feel even more confident about returning to the high street,&#8221; he said.&#160;</p><p></p><p>From Monday 28 September, Mr Johnson said staff and workers in retail will also have to work masks, previously this was optional.</p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>Banks and post offices </strong></h3></p><p>Banks and post offices are also included in the government&#8217;s guidelines.</p><p>When asked if people should cover their faces if they are going into a bank, Mr Lewis said: &#8220;Yes... it&#8217;s all retail outlets and retail banks on our high streets are retail outlets effectively as well. </p><p>&#8220;And what you&#8217;re doing when you are in a bank, if you&#8217;re going in there to pay money in or withdraw money, you&#8217;re going in there in the same way as you&#8217;re going into a shop to buy a sandwich, or a book or some clothes. </p><p>&#8220;Therefore it is appropriate that you should be wearing a face mask.&#8221; </p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>Public transport</strong></h3></p><p>Since 15 June, anyone travelling by bus, train, ferry or plane in England has been required to wear a face covering.</p><p>People can be refused travel if they don&#8217;t follow the rules, and can be fined as a last resort.</p><p>It is also compulsory to wear face coverings on all public transport in Scotland, Wales and northern Ireland.</p><p></p><p>On 22 September this was amended to also include private hire vehicles and taxis in England - many firms, like Uber, had already been encouraging customers to do so. This rule comes into action on 24 September.</p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>Cinemas, galleries, museums and places of worship</strong></h3></p><p>From 8 August, it is enforceable by law for people to wear face masks in indoor spaces where they are likely to come into contact with people they do not usually meet.</p><p>This includes cinemas, galleries, museums and places of worship, in addition to visitor attractions such as aquariums and amusement arcades, the government <a rel="nofollow" href="https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/face-coverings-when-to-wear-one-and-how-to-make-your-own/face-coverings-when-to-wear-one-and-how-to-make-your-own#when-to-wear-a-face-covering">outlines</a> on its website.</p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>Who is exempt from wearing a face mask?</strong></h3></p><p>The same exemptions as for public transport will <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/life-style/face-coverings-mask-england-exempt-compulsory-shops-public-transport-a9617656.html" class="body-link">apply under the updated guidelines</a>, with children under 11 and people with breathing problems not required to wear a covering.</p><p></p><p>Anyone who cannot put on, wear or remove a face covering because of a physical or mental illness or impairment or disability is also exempt.</p><p>Under the new rules, the below groups are not required to wear a mask:</p><ul>
<li>A child under the age of 11</li> <li>An employee of the transport operator, when they are acting in the course of their employment</li> <li>A constable or police community support officer acting in the course of their duty</li> <li>An emergency response member of staff, such as a paramedic or fire officer acting in the course of their duty</li> <li>An official such as a border force officer, acting in the course of their duty</li> <li>If you are onboard public transport but remain in your own vehicle, such as a car ferry</li> </ul><p>Other exemptions listed include those with a disability or a physical or mental illness, and anyone travelling with a deaf person who relies on lip-reading to communicate. </p><p>Customers in shops will also be allowed to remove them if they are required to present identification for purchasing alcohol and other age-restricted products. </p><p class="sc-pdkfH jjYIOP"><h3><strong>What happens if you don&#8217;t wear a mask?</strong></h3></p><p>Those who refuse to comply can be hit with an increased fine of up to &#163;200 for a first-time offence (previously it was &#163;100), Mr Johnson confirmed on 22 September.</p><p></p><p>This also now applies to businesses where staff are not complying, he added.</p><p>The rules will be enforced by the police, not shop workers who should instead &#8220;encourage compliance&#8221;, officials have said. </p><p>Metropolitan Police chief <a href="https://www.independent.co.uk/topic/cressida-dick">Dame Cressida Dick</a> previously said officers will only enforce the wearing of masks in shops &#8220;as a last resort&#8221;, adding that she hopes people will be &#8220;shamed&#8221; into using face coverings rather than having to be fined.</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>