--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://ychef.files.bbci.co.uk/live/624x351/p08v6z9t.jpg 
title: > 
  What Halloween will look like during Covid-19 
description: > 
  Even though total Halloween spending across the industry is projected to drop slightly to $8bn, Americans plan to purchase sweets and decorations at relatively similar rates to 2019.“And show me the person who can resist a little Halloween candy.”Garb and goodiesIf people aren’t trick-or-treating in droves, what happens to the industry that’s dependent on families around the country stocking up on sweets and chocolates before Halloween?Sweets companies took lessons from Easter, and quickly applied them to their Halloween plans.Mars Wrigley – known for M&M’s, Snickers and Skittles – slimmed down its own Halloween portfolio to focus on top-selling products, says Tim Lebel, chief Halloween officer and president of US sales.In August, when early birds began stocking up, sweets manufacturers saw a 13% jump in total Halloween sales compared to the same time last year, driven mainly by chocolate as more shoppers returned to grocery stores. 
date: 1603163148.9977257 
--- 
<div><p>Even though total Halloween spending across the industry is projected to drop slightly to $8bn, Americans plan to purchase sweets and decorations at relatively similar rates to 2019. The industry is well positioned to stay in good shape until things return to normal. &#8220;You might not be able to have a party, you might not be able to safely hand out candy but you can dress up and decorate your front yard,&#8221; says Cullen. &#8220;And show me the person who can resist a little Halloween candy.&#8221;</p>
<p><strong>Garb and goodies</strong></p>
<p>If people aren&#8217;t trick-or-treating in droves, what happens to the industry that&#8217;s dependent on families around the country stocking up on sweets and chocolates before Halloween?</p>
<p>Back in March, the Pennsylvania-based Hershey Company &#8211; which sells Hershey&#8217;s chocolate products Kit Kat, Reese&#8217;s Peanut Butter Cups and its famous Kisses in the US &#8211; was just two weeks from receiving Halloween orders from retailers when the coronavirus struck, says Alex Corcoran, Hershey&#8217;s senior director of seasons.</p>
<p>&#8220;At that time, we were living day to day in Easter season, which is also massive for us,&#8221; he says. When federal stay-at-home orders went into effect, the company braced for a big loss. But &#8220;when it was all said and done, the category only was off 7%&#8221;.</p>
<p>Sweets companies took lessons from Easter, and quickly applied them to their Halloween plans. Hershey&#8217;s knew people would be shopping less often, so they lowered the price points on certain bulk bags. Mars Wrigley &#8211; known for M&amp;M&#8217;s, Snickers and Skittles &#8211; slimmed down its own Halloween portfolio to focus on top-selling products, says Tim Lebel, chief Halloween officer and president of US sales. By adjusting their models to accommodate the coronavirus-induced changes to shoppers&#8217; behaviour, companies have managed to drive away any concern about a slow season.</p>
<p>In August, when early birds began stocking up, <a href="https://candyusa.com/news/new-sales-data-shows-halloween-candy-sales-are-up-in-2020/">sweets manufacturers saw a 13% jump</a> in total Halloween sales compared to the same time last year, driven mainly by chocolate as more shoppers returned to grocery stores. People turn to their favourite comforts in times of uncertainty, Lebel adds, &#8220;so while trick-or-treating may not be possible in every community, there are other traditions and smaller moments that consumers plan to celebrate &#8230; with our products&#8221;.</p></div>