--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static01.nyt.com/images/2020/10/09/world/09virus-briefing-stimulus01/09virus-briefing-stimulus01-facebookJumbo.jpg 
title: > 
  White House Floats $1.8 Trillion Stimulus Offer in Last-Ditch Effort: Live Updates 
description: > 
  ET White House Floats $1.8 Trillion Stimulus Offer in Last-Ditch Effort: Live Updates S&P 500 U.S. % Dow U.S. % Oil W.T.I.% Nikkei Japan % Dax Germany % FTSE Britain % RIGHT NOW White House raises stimulus offer in scramble to revive talks.White House raises stimulus offer in scramble to revive talks.Fanning the sense of optimism, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter: “Covid Relief Negotiations are moving along.A White House official said that Mr. Trump was calling Republican senators on Friday to drum up enthusiasm for a last-minute deal. 
date: 1602269390.7690117 
--- 
Live Updated Oct. 9, 2020, 2:12 p.m. ET Oct. 9, 2020, 2:12 p.m. ET White House Floats $1.8 Trillion Stimulus Offer in Last-Ditch Effort: Live Updates S&P 500 U.S. % Dow U.S. % Oil W.T.I. % Nikkei Japan % Dax Germany % FTSE Britain % RIGHT NOW White House raises stimulus offer in scramble to revive talks.

White House raises stimulus offer in scramble to revive talks. Speaker Nancy Pelosi said of talks with Republicans, “We want to continue the conversation.” Credit... Pete Marovich for The New York Times The White House, seeking to revive stimulus talks that President Trump called off just days ago, planned on Friday to put forward its largest offer for economic relief yet, as some Republicans worried about being blamed by voters for failing to deliver needed aid ahead of the election. The new proposal, for Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin to present to congressional Democrats, would increase the White House’s plan for coronavirus stimulus to $1.8 trillion. The president “would like to do a deal,” Larry Kudlow, director of the National Economic Council, said on the Fox Business Network on Friday, in the latest head-snapping turn in the on-again-off-again negotiations. The overall price tag of the offer was confirmed by two people familiar with the discussions, who spoke on condition of anonymity to disclose details of the talks. Fanning the sense of optimism, Mr. Trump wrote on Twitter: “Covid Relief Negotiations are moving along. Go Big!” The prospects of a compromise remained remote, however, given the opposition of many Republicans to another large infusion of federal virus aid. Speaking to reporters in Kentucky, Senator Mitch McConnell, the majority leader, cast doubt on the chances of a deal, saying political divisions remained too deep less than a month before Election Day. “The situation is kind of murky and I think the murkiness is a result of the proximity to the election and everybody kind of trying to elbow for political advantage,” Mr. McConnell said. “I’d like to see us rise above that like we did back in March and April, but I think that’s unlikely in the next three weeks.” Yet the White House was working to resuscitate negotiations that Mr. Trump himself cut off in a series of indignant tweets on Tuesday, amid deep concern among some vulnerable Republicans that his abrupt abandonment of the talks would hurt them politically. Mr. Kudlow said that the president met with Mr. Mnuchin and Mark Meadows, White House chief of staff, on Friday and that the Treasury secretary would speak with Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California later Friday afternoon. Without an agreement, the collateral damage across the country has continued to mount in the absence of federal funding, with more than 800,000 Americans filing new applications for state benefits, before adjusting for seasonal variations. Even if Ms. Pelosi were to accept the administration’s latest proposal, which is lower than the $2.2 trillion package she pushed through the House this month, Senate Republicans remain divided over the scope of another coronavirus relief package. Most of them opposed the original $1 trillion offer Mr. McConnell presented in July, after days of haggling with the White House, in part because they were concerned about adding to the national debt. Mr. McConnell has since scaled back the offer considerably, proposing a $350 billion “skinny” plan that Democrats blocked, calling it inadequate. A White House official said that Mr. Trump was calling Republican senators on Friday to drum up enthusiasm for a last-minute deal. Mr. Mnuchin’s offer is expected to include measures that Republicans have previously rejected, the official said, suggesting an increase in state in local funding is likely to be included in the proposal. — Emily Cochrane and

Stocks rise after a tumultuous week as investors try to decipher prospects for more stimulus. Stocks were heading higher again on Friday, after a turbulent week in which President Trump injected confusion into talks between the Treasury Department and Congress on the prospects of a broad stimulus bill, to aid small businesses, local governments and out-of-work Americans, halting them and then restarting them again.

On Wall Street, the S&P 500 climbed nearly 1 percent, on track to end the week with a gain of more than 3 percent.

The gains on Friday came as Speaker Nancy Pelosi said in a television interview that she hoped a deal would be reached soon, and Larry Kudlow, who advises the president on economic policy, said Mr. Trump had “approved a revised package,” and that Ms. Pelosi and Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin would be speaking again.

But also on Friday, the Senate Majority leader, Mitch McConnell, cast doubt on the likelihood for a deal when he said the prospects for more aid were unclear, with the election just weeks away.

The mixed messages were just the latest in a tumultuous week in which Mr. Trump called off talks only to reverse himself two days later. That has left investors hopeful, but uncertain about the prospects for a deal.

Instead, some investors have begun to look past the short-term uncertainty of whether an agreement will be reached before the election, instead focusing on the potential for a “blue wave” that sweeps Democrats into power and enables former Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. to enact a much larger stimulus spending plan.

“Any near-term fiscal deal looked unlikely this close to the election. Hopes of a deal post-election hinge on the outcome of the race,” Michael Pearce, senior U.S. economist with Capital Economics, wrote in a note to clients Friday. “The bigger factor driving markets this week was the continued swing in both betting odds and polling averages, which show the Democrats are increasingly favored to not only win the presidency but take control of the Senate too.”

The focus on another round of support from Washington comes as the number of virus cases around the world rises, and the recovery in major economies — including the United States — show signs of losing steam. Britain on Friday said its gross domestic product rose 2.1 percent in August over the month before, less than expected and the smallest monthly increase since the economy started expanding again in late spring. The British economy is still 9 percent smaller than it was before the pandemic. — Mohammed Hadi and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Microsoft says its employees can work from home permanently. Microsoft joined Target and Ford Motor in announcing new work-from-home policies this week. Credit... Ng Han Guan/Associated Press Microsoft will allow its employees to work from home permanently, as coronavirus cases continue to climb in the United States and companies struggle to figure out how to arrange offices in a way that keeps workers socially distanced and safe. Microsoft this week issued guidelines for its planned “hybrid model” of working after pandemic restrictions are lifted. Some employees could work from home less than half the time and still retain their company offices, the company said in a staff memo. Other options, with company approval, would include permanently working from home and relocating to other states or even countries. The new guidelines, first reported in The Verge, are “guided by employee input, data, and our commitment to support individual workstyles and business needs,” Microsoft said in a statement. Microsoft previously said that its offices will not reopen until January 2021 at the earliest. The news comes a day after Target and Ford Motor said that they would allow employees to continue to work from home through June 2021. Target’s decision, announced in a letter to staff, applies just to employees at its headquarters in Minneapolis. The company said that a small number of employees who rely on the headquarter facilities would continue to work on-site. The retailer also said it was using this time as an opportunity to reimagine the role of its office in a post-pandemic era. “As we look to the future, our headquarters environment will include a hybrid model of remote and on-site work,” Target wrote in the letter. “This will allow for the flexibility many of you have come to value, while also providing opportunity for the in-person connection and collaboration that’s central to our team and culture.” Ford also said its decision would apply to its roughly 32,000 employees in North America who are already working remotely. The announcements by Microsoft, Ford and Target come after several other companies, including Google, Uber and Slack, have decided that employees need not return to the office until at least next summer. Some companies have tried bringing employees back to the office, but not always successfully. Last month, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase had to send some workers back home after employees tested positive for the virus. — Gillian Friedman and

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Catch Up: Disney will move Pixar’s ‘Soul’ to its streaming service. The next Pixar movie, “Soul,” will be made available online instead of in theaters because of the pandemic, the Walt Disney Company said. The film, about a jazz musician who is magically transported to an otherworldly place where personalities are created, will arrive on Disney+ on Dec. 25 at no additional cost to subscribers (unlike the recent “Mulan,” which was accessible for a $30 surcharge). “Soul” had been scheduled for theatrical release on Nov. 20.

The Trump administration adds tariffs on nearly $2 billion of imported aluminum. An aluminium factory in India in 2019. India is one of the countries on which the United States levied new tariffs. Credit... Dhiraj Singh/Bloomberg The Trump administration levied tariffs on $1.96 billion of imported aluminum sheet from 18 countries on Friday, saying that foreign producers were selling their products at unfairly low prices and undercutting American manufacturers. In an interview on Fox Business Network on Friday morning, Wilbur Ross, the secretary of commerce, called the move “the largest and most far-reaching case that our department has brought in more than 20 years.” He said Germany would feel the largest impact, followed by Bahrain. Mr. Ross traced part of the problem back to China. He said China was dumping its excess capacity into other markets, which would then find its way into the United States. “The net effect is a lot of dumping in the U.S., and that’s what we’re clamping down on,” he said. The United States, which imported $15.9 billion of aluminum in 2019, has already imposed a 10 percent tariff on imported aluminum from many countries, though Canada, Mexico and others have earned certain exemptions. Some American aluminum makers support the tariffs, but the levies have angered many manufacturers that make cars, boats, recreational vehicles, washing machines and other products, and now have to pay higher prices for their raw materials. The U.S. government typically brings dozens of trade cases against foreign countries every year for unfairly subsidizing and pricing their products. But the Trump administration has been particularly aggressive in pursuing and welcoming such cases from various industries, and has initiated 286 of them so far during its term. The tariffs, which went into effect immediately, apply to products from Bahrain, Brazil, Croatia, Egypt, Germany, Greece, India, Indonesia, Italy, Oman, Romania, Serbia, Slovenia, South Africa, South Korea, Spain, Taiwan and Turkey. The tariff rates vary by country and range up to 353 percent of the cost of the good. Several U.S. aluminum manufacturers requested the tariffs, including Arconic, Novelis Corporation, Texarkana Aluminum and Constellium Rolled Products Ravenswood. The Commerce Department will begin collecting the levies immediately, but they could still be struck down and retroactively reimbursed. The U.S. International Trade Commission will make its final decision on the case on April 5, 2021, the Commerce Department said. —

Advertisement Continue reading the main story

Some chief executives have made a killing in the stock market this year. Some corporate executives have seen their wealth soar this year, thanks to stock awards that have gained in value as the stock market rebounded from its plunge at the start of the coronavirus pandemic. Edward W. Stack, the chief executive of Dick’s Sporting Goods, and William Lynch, president of Peloton, for example, are each sitting on paper gains of over $60 million on stock-based awards they mostly received in the first three months of the year, according to an analysis by Institutional Shareholder Services.

And Stéphane Bancel, the chief executive of Moderna, a drug maker developing a coronavirus vaccine, received options in February that have appreciated by nearly $30 million.

Some executives at companies that have been hit hard by the pandemic have still done well. In March, William J. Hornbuckle, chief executive of MGM Resorts International, gave up the remainder of his 2020 salary in exchange for restricted stock units worth $700,000, the amount of his forgone salary. After MGM stock recovered somewhat from the lows it plumbed in March, that grant is worth $1.3 million on paper — and all his 2020 awards have appreciated by a combined $4 million.

Not all executives have gains on their 2020 grants, because many companies have struggled in the pandemic. ISS found that 1,675 “named executive officers,” or the executives who appear in proxies, had gains while 1,388 had losses, as of Wednesday’s closing stock prices. The average appreciation was nearly $1.5 million and the average loss $827,000. One reason stock awards have appreciated so much is that some of the grants were made when the stock market was close to its lowest point for the year. Of course, many executives are also sitting on gains on stock they got in earlier years. —