--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://i.insider.com/5f8a36b79e9fe40019009eb1?width=1200&format=jpeg 
title: > 
  Why Dropbox is transforming its offices into 'collaborative' spaces and assigning employees specific meeting 'windows,' according to the top exec leading the initiative 
description: > 
  Dropbox is following many of its peers and adopting permanent remote work while turning its existing offices into collaborative spaces meant for team gatherings and meetings.The Dropbox model will make sure that every employee has the same experience, while still creating physical spaces for team and culture building."How could we get employees the flexibility that remote work has offered us, but with the benefit of human connection and community?"Like many other companies embracing remote work, it's also adjusting salaries if people move to places with lower costs of living."We really want to help employees draw boundaries between when synchronous collaboration can take place versus asynchronous work," Collins said. 
date: 1603173659.8005505 
--- 
<div><ul class="summary-list">
<li>Dropbox is following many of its peers <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/dropbox-letting-all-employees-work-from-home-permanently-2020-10">and adopting permanent remote work</a> while turning its existing offices into collaborative spaces meant for team gatherings and meetings.&#160;</li>
<li>Business Insider spoke to Dropbox's global head of people, Melanie Collins, about how the firm is rethinking how employees work and how to build company culture.&#160;</li>
<li>Dropbox is encouraging employees to move out of "higher cost" areas with relocation bonuses, while adjusting salaries if they move to lower cost regions as well.&#160;</li>
<li>Dropbox is also turning to an asynchronous-by-default work style and creating specific time windows when employees can hold meetings.&#160;</li>
<li><a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/?hprecirc-bullet">Visit Business Insider's homepage for more stories</a>.</li>
</ul>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-1" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>Dropbox, which found through an internal survey that nearly 90% of its employees felt more productive working from home, is following in the footsteps of many of its peers <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/dropbox-letting-all-employees-work-from-home-permanently-2020-10">and making remote work permanent post-pandemic</a>. Meanwhile, it's turning its existing offices into collaborative spaces meant for team gatherings and meetings.&#160;</p><p>Dropbox is deliberately choosing a "virtual first" model where no one consistently works in an office instead of a hybrid model <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/atlassian-says-employees-they-can-work-from-home-permanently-2020-8">like Slack or Atlassian</a>, where employees can choose to either work from offices when they reopen or work remote some or all the time, because it wanted everyone to be on a level playing field, said Dropbox's global head of people, Melanie Collins.</p><p>In a hybrid model, employees who are full-remote versus in-office could have very different experiences, which could result in inequities in performance or different levels of inclusion and belonging, she said. The Dropbox model will make sure that every employee has the same experience, while still creating physical spaces for team and culture building.</p><p>"We started to ask ourselves if we had the opportunity to start with a clean slate, how might we actually redesign our work life?" Collins told Business Insider. "How could we get employees the flexibility that remote work has offered us, but with the benefit of human connection and community?"</p><p>The new shared workspaces &#8212; dubbed Dropbox Studios &#8212; will fill that need for company culture and bonding. Here's how the company's adjusting its work philosophies to accommodate remote first:</p><h2><strong>Redesigning offices as employees rethink work locations&#160;</strong></h2><p>Right now Dropbox has long term leases for four of its 12 offices. Those four offices in San Francisco, Seattle, Austin, and Dublin, Ireland, and will be converted to collaborative work spaces and used for work that requires people to be together physically.&#160;</p><p>There won't be rows of desks or individual stations that people can use for solo work. Instead rooms will be designed for specific purposes, Collins said. Some initial ideas are: Rooms covered with whiteboards for strategic planning or discussions, rooms with comfortable furniture and plants for relationship building discussions, a classroom style room for training, and an auditorium style room for presentations. The specifics for each location will vary.</p><p>While each employee will be assigned to one of these studios, Dropbox is allowing people to move anywhere else that it is legally set up to do business, which includes most of the US, and could include other countries, too.&#160;As employees move outside of its main office regions it also plans to build more flexible workspaces in other places.&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-2" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>"As employees become more distributed and as we gain critical mass in other cities, we will look to invest in studios in those cities," Collins said.&#160;</p><p>Dropbox is incentivizing employees to move out of "higher cost areas" with a relocation bonus. Like many other companies embracing remote work, <a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/slack-increased-remote-work-cultural-operational-changes-robby-kwok-2020-6">it's also adjusting salaries if people move to places with lower costs of living.</a> It's also adopting GitLab's method of using a pay calculator that assigns "geo-zones" to different regions so adjustments are consistent, Collins said, but declined to share specific numbers.</p><p>To replace in-office accommodation like free food, Dropbox is revamping all its employee perks into a single stipend that lets workers choose what they want to use it for, including home office supplies, caregiver support, tuition reimbursement or even coworking space access if someone's home is not conducive to working.&#160;</p><p>"There will of course be in-office perks we miss," Collins said, "But we hope that employees will be able to tailor their allowance to what works best for them."</p><p>Dropbox declined to share the amount of the stipend, as it's still being finalized.&#160;</p><h2><strong>Changing how people work when "virtual first"</strong></h2><p>Going remote also requires rethinking how work actually gets done. Based on its experience so far, <a href="https://blog.dropbox.com/collections/virtual-first-toolkit">Dropbox has created guidelines</a> for what tools can be used for remote work, what hours should be used for meetings versus individual work, and how to evaluate impact.&#160;</p><p>Communication should be asynchronous by default, Collins said, meaning that workers will solve problems and make decisions without scheduling a live video call, and using tools like email, Slack, Atlassian's JIRA, and its own tool, Dropbox Paper, to manage projects and ask questions.&#160;</p><p>Zoom should only be used when a meeting is absolutely necessary, like discussing complex or emotionally sensitive topics or morale building events, she said.&#160;</p>
<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-mobile_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-mobile"></p>

<p id="gpt-post-enterprise-desktop_in_post_ad-fluid-3" class="ad ad-wrapper fluid in-post only-desktop"></p>
<p>To make sure that people contain their meetings to certain parts of the day, Dropbox is also assigning everyone a four hour collaboration window, based on the region they're in (for example, employees in the Americas will have collaboration hours between 9am to 1pm Pacific Time, regardless of regional time zone). Workers are not allowed to schedule meetings outside of participants' windows. "We really want to help employees draw boundaries between when synchronous collaboration can take place versus asynchronous work," Collins said. She expects many employees will have a "nonlinear workday" as a result. Eight straight hours of Zoom calls is not productive, she added.&#160;</p><p>"We can't just move our old ways of working to an online context," Collins said. "We'll have to fundamentally rethink the way we work together."</p><p><strong>Do you work at Dropbox or another company that's going all remote? </strong>Contact this reporter via email at&#160;<a href="mailto:pzaveri@businessinsider.com">pzaveri@businessinsider.com</a>&#160;or Signal at&#160;925-364-4258. (PR pitches by email only, please.)&#160;You can also&#160;<a href="https://www.businessinsider.com/how-to-tip-business-insider-securely-guide-signal-securedrop-2017-6">contact Business Insider securely via SecureDrop</a>.</p>
                  </div>