--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://www.gannett-cdn.com/presto/2020/10/16/USAT/6cab926a-2ccf-476e-a588-160d66a725fe-AP20290022795101.jpg?crop=5999,3375,x0,y0&width=3200&height=1801&format=pjpg&auto=webp 
title: > 
  Will a COVID-19 stimulus deal be struck by Tuesday? What we know about relief negotiations 
description: > 
  They had initially proposed a $3.4 trillion plan Republicans rejected as too expensive, so Democrats lowered the price tag on their offer.He then reopened negotiations with Democrats, with White House negotiators offering a $1.8 trillion deal.The White House, for its part, acknowledges Senate Republicans are unlikely to support a stimulus bill the higher the price tag goes.The administration has not publicly released details of its stimulus plan or text of proposed legislation.The White House has not released the text of their proposal, though Trump has said he wants $1,200 checks. 
date: 1603135646.235733 
--- 
<div><p class="teal-video-wrap"></p><p class="gnt_em_vt"></p><p class="gnt_em_vb gnt_em_vb__te"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">WASHINGTON&#160;&#8211;&#160;The clock is ticking for Democrats and Republicans to reach a COVID-19 stimulus deal after House Speaker Nancy Pelosi set a Tuesday deadline for both sides&#160;to come together to restore urgently needed benefits before Election Day.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Both sides are struggling to cut a deal just weeks before the election, with Democrats and Republicans hundreds of billions of dollars apart in their proposals and unable to resolve major policy differences on COVID-19 testing, child tax credit provisions, and funding for state and local governments.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Congress last passed a comprehensive package in March, and many of the package&#8217;s provisions have since lapsed. The federal boost to unemployment benefits ran out in July, airline assistance expired in October, and Americans weathering an economic recession eagerly await another round of stimulus checks. &#160;</p><p id="~ad-slot-7103-usatoday-native-article_link-news-politics-2" class="gnt_x_sl gnt_x_al"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">President Donald Trump <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/10/06/covid-stimulus-update-trump-rejects-democratic-offer-eyes-election/3627003001/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">abruptly put an end</a> to stimulus talks at the beginning of the month, telling Senate Republicans to instead focus on the Supreme Court nomination of Judge Amy Coney Barrett, but has since <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/10/09/covid-19-stimulus-update-white-house-offer-1-8-trillion-plan/5938866002/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">reversed course</a>, reopening negotiations with congressional Democrats.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p"><strong class="gnt_ar_b_al">More:</strong><a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/elections/2020/10/18/trump-attack-third-debate-moderator-kristen-welker-unfair/3704010001/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">The final debate could be Trump's last chance to turn the race around. And he's already attacking the moderator.</a></p><p id="~ad-slot-7103-usatoday-native-article_link-news-politics-3" class="gnt_x_sl gnt_x_al"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p"><strong class="gnt_ar_b_al">More:</strong><a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/10/18/trump-attacks-biden-nevada-campaign-stops/3702205001/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">Trump tries to tamp down Republican dissent, lashes out at GOP Sen. Ben Sasse at Nevada rally</a></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Here&#8217;s the latest on stimulus negotiations:</p><h2 class="gnt_ar_b_h2">How much funding does each side want?</h2><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">After months of negotiations, Democrats and Republicans remain billions of dollars apart in their proposals.&#160;Democrats want about $2.2 trillion in funding, and the White House has proposed about $1.8 trillion. Senate Republicans, on the other hand, are set to act on a $500 billion plan Wednesday. Trump, for his part, has said he wants more funding than Democrats are offering.&#160;</p><h2 class="gnt_ar_b_h2">What do Democrats want?</h2><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Congressional Democrats have <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/10/01/covid-19-stimulus-house-vote-bill-negotiations-hit-roadblock/5885414002/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">held fast</a> to their $2.2 trillion proposal outlined in legislation the Democratic-controlled House passed at the beginning of October. They had initially proposed a $3.4 trillion plan Republicans&#160;rejected as too expensive, so Democrats lowered the price tag on their offer.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Pelosi set a Tuesday deadline for both sides to reach a deal, saying Sunday on ABC News' "This Week" that both sides had until Tuesday to reach a deal if they wanted a package passed before the election.&#160;</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Both sides have gridlocked over provisions like the amount of the federal unemployment boost and the amount of aid for state and local governments. The most recent Democratic proposal includes $600 per week in unemployment benefits, which Senate Republicans said would serve as a disincentive to&#160;work. And Democrats want $436 billion in assistance for state and local governments, many of which have seen their budgets stretched by the COVID-19 pandemic. Republicans fear such a large allocation of funding adds to the deficit and bails out mismanaged governments.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Some Democrats have openly criticized <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/10/13/nancy-pelosi-and-cnns-wolf-blitzer-clash-over-congress-covid-19-aid/3645190001/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">Pelosi&#8217;s current position</a>, calling for the House to take the White House&#8217;s most recent $1.8 trillion offer and use it as a foundation for more aid if Democrats win the White House, keep control of the House, and flip control of the Senate.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Rep. Ro Khanna, D-Calif., a progressive, said last week Democrats should simply take the White House&#8217;s deal, saying in a CNN interview what he and many other members of Congress believed &#8220;what is unacceptable is for us to go away with no deal.&#8221;</p><p id="~ad-slot-7103-usatoday-native-article_link-news-politics-4" class="gnt_x_sl gnt_x_al"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p"><strong class="gnt_ar_b_al">More:</strong><a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/10/13/nancy-pelosi-and-cnns-wolf-blitzer-clash-over-congress-covid-19-aid/3645190001/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">Nancy Pelosi calls CNN's Wolf Blitzer an 'apologist' for the 'Republican position' in tense interview</a></p><h2 class="gnt_ar_b_h2">What does the White House want?</h2><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The White House&#8217;s position has <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/10/11/covid-19-relief-white-house-message-unclear-pelosi-rejects-gop-plan/5961903002/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">shifted several times</a> over the past month.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">At the beginning of October, Trump halted months of negotiations, but then reversed course, calling for standalone stimulus bills to provide another round of stimulus checks and relief for airlines. He then reopened negotiations with Democrats, with White House negotiators offering a $1.8 trillion deal.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The White House, for its part, acknowledges Senate Republicans are unlikely to support a stimulus bill the higher the price tag goes. The administration has not publicly released details of its stimulus plan or text of proposed legislation.&#160;</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">White House Chief of Staff Mark Meadows, who has been one of the lead White House negotiators, told reporters Monday, &#8220;The Senate Republicans have been very vocal in terms of their lack of support of a number that isn&#8217;t even close to what the president has already supported at the $1.8 trillion range,&#8221; adding that whether enough Republican senators would support a deal was &#8220;up to Leader (Mitch) McConnell," referring to the Kentucky Republican and Senate majority leader.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Trump, for his part, has said he wants a deal even larger than what his negotiators are proposing.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">&#8220;I want to do it at a bigger number than (Pelosi) wants,&#8221; he told reporters Sunday, adding he thought Senate Republicans would go along with him if a deal were reached.</p><h2 class="gnt_ar_b_h2">What do Senate Republicans want?</h2><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The Republican-controlled Senate is&#160;set to return from its recess and&#160;vote this week on two stimulus-related bills, though Republicans likely lack the votes to overcome Senate Democrats&#8217; objections.</p><p id="~ad-slot-7103-usatoday-native-article_link-news-politics-5" class="gnt_x_sl gnt_x_al"></p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">They will take up a bill to reauthorize the Paycheck Protection Program for small business loan forgiveness on Tuesday and a $500 billion stimulus bill on Wednesday. McConnell said Saturday their plan would include more unemployment benefits, over $100 billion for schools and vaccine funding, among other provisions.&#160;</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Both bills, however, require the support of at least 60 senators to break a procedural roadblock called a filibuster, an unlikely scenario given Democrats&#8217; opposition. The 53-47 composition of the Senate between Republicans and Democrats means at least seven&#160;Democrats would need to break with their party to agree to end debate and advance to a final vote on a bill.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Democrats have so far refused to support standalone bills unless they receive guarantees a larger bill would be considered as well and have criticized Republicans&#8217; stimulus plan as too small to respond to the pandemic. Republicans attempted to pass a similar, smaller relief bill priced at about $300 billion in September, but Senate Democrats <a href="https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/politics/2020/09/10/coronavirus-senate-set-vote-bill-democrats-vow-block/5762727002/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">blocked </a>it from moving forward.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">McConnell on Saturday left the door open to considering a larger package brokered by the White House and Democrats, saying in a statement, "If Speaker Pelosi ever lets the House reach a bipartisan agreement with the administration, the Senate would of course consider it."</p><h2 class="gnt_ar_b_h2">Do any of these plans have more stimulus checks?</h2><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">The Democrats&#8217; plan includes another round of $1,200 checks. The White House has not released the text of their proposal, though Trump has <a href="https://twitter.com/realdonaldtrump/status/1313664886648582144" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">said </a>he wants $1,200 checks. The Senate Republicans&#8217; $500 billion&#160;plan does not include more individual payments.</p><p id="~ad-slot-7103-usatoday-native-article_link-news-politics-6" class="gnt_x_sl gnt_x_al"></p><h2 class="gnt_ar_b_h2">What do members of Congress think?&#160;</h2><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Some lawmakers are&#160;pessimistic about a deal. Sen. Chris Coons, D-Del., <a href="https://twitter.com/SquawkCNBC/status/1318164903392382977?s=20" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">told CNBC</a> on Monday morning he would put the chances of a stimulus deal before the election at&#160;&#8220;50/50 at best, frankly,&#8221; calling the situation &#8220;frustrating.&#8221;&#160;</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Pelosi, though, told House Democrats in a letter Sunday she was "optimistic that we can reach agreement before the election."</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Rep. Josh Gottheimer, D-N.J., the co-chair of the Problem Solvers Caucus, a bipartisan group of lawmakers who introduced their own stimulus framework in September, told reporters on a conference call Monday it was "unconscionable that it not get done" before the election.&#160;</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">"We can't wait until February. It's unacceptable," he said.&#160;</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Some members of Congress are unhappy with the lack of input rank-and-file lawmakers get in the drafting of stimulus legislation.</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p">Rep. David Joyce, R-Ohio, also a member of the Problem Solvers Caucus, criticized the "bull----" of having a plan handed down from party leadership, noting how their bipartisan group was able to come up with a framework by negotiating with each other.&#160;</p><p class="gnt_ar_b_p"><strong class="gnt_ar_b_al">More:</strong><a href="https://www.usatoday.com/in-depth/news/nation/2020/10/18/coronavirus-asian-americans-racism-death-rates-san-francisco/5799617002/" target="_blank" rel="noopener" class="gnt_ar_b_a">Asian Americans in San Francisco are dying at alarming rates from COVID-19: Racism is to blame</a></p></div>