--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://static.independent.co.uk/2020/10/20/13/SingaporeNewYork.png 
title: > 
  World’s longest flight to launch between Singapore and New York 
description: > 
  A midnight feast in Singapore, breakfast over Siberia, lunch over Greenland and breakfast once more before the final approach to New York: that is what awaits passengers booked on the world’s longest scheduled passenger flight.Singapore Airlines flight 24 is to take off from the city-state on 9 November, destination New York JFK.The plane is kitted out with 42 business, 24 premium economy and 187 economy class seats.Lee Lik Hsin, executive vice-president commercial for Singapore Airlines, said: “Nonstop ultra-long services are the bedrock of our services to the key US market.Singapore Airlines has previously flown nonstop to New York City, but served Newark airport – three miles closer to the South East Asian city state. 
keywords: > 
  city, longest, class, worlds, launch, passengers, nonstop, airlines, flight, economy, york, services, miles, singapore 
date: 1603266330.2180283 
--- 
<div><p class="sc-pHJJA iocNwz above-article-prompt-donations"></p><p>A midnight feast in Singapore, breakfast over Siberia, lunch over Greenland and breakfast once more before the final approach to New York: that is what awaits passengers booked on the world&#8217;s longest scheduled passenger flight.</p><p>Singapore Airlines flight 24 is to take off from the city-state on 9 November, destination New York JFK.</p><p></p><p>The trip is scheduled to cover the 9,537 miles between the two airports in 18 hours and five minutes.&#160;</p><p id="article-im-prompt"></p><p>The most direct route heads almost due north from Singapore, crossing Cambodia and over the Chinese city of Chengdu, bisecting Mongolia and Siberia towards the Arctic.</p><p></p><p></p><p>The second part of the journey clips Greenland and crosses Iqaluit in Baffin Island &#8211; a frequent diversion airport for long-haul flights.</p><p>The Airbus A350-900 departs Singapore in the early hours of the morning, three days a week, and arrives at 7.30am local time. In the reverse direction, it will take 35 minutes longer due to the prevailing winds.</p><p id="taboola-carousel-thumbnails"></p><p>The International Date Line means that passengers from New York will lose a day along the way &#8211; departing from JFK at 10.30pm on Monday, and arriving in Singapore at 6.10am on Wednesday.</p><p>The plane is kitted out with 42 business, 24 premium economy and 187 economy class seats.</p><p>A one-way economy ticket costs S$1,753 (&#163;1,000), with premium economy 67 per cent more expensive. In business class, the fare is S$5,600 (&#163;3,195).</p><p>Whatever the class, &#8220;all passengers are required to keep their masks on throughout the flight when they are not eating or drinking,&#8221; the airline stipulates.&#160;</p><p>Lee Lik Hsin, executive vice-president commercial for Singapore Airlines, said: &#8220;Nonstop ultra-long services are the bedrock of our services to the key US market.</p><p></p><p>&#8220;Despite the challenging times for the airline industry, there are some early signs of optimism about a recovery in air travel. Our customers say that they are increasingly confident about air travel.</p><p>&#8220;We will continue to ramp up existing services and reinstate other points as the demand for both passenger and cargo services return.&#8221;</p><p class="sc-oVoYc jwakra"></p><p class="sc-pDboM dXmEmK">Brexit briefing: How long until the end of the transition period?</p><p>Singapore Airlines has previously flown nonstop to New York City, but served Newark airport &#8211; three miles closer to the South East Asian city state. The link was suspended at the start of the coronavirus pandemic.</p><p></p><p>The announcement coincided with the departure of a <a href="/travel/news-and-advice/australia-travel-holidays-coronavirus-darwin-qantas-flights-b1076004.html">Qantas Boeing 787 from Perth</a> in Western Australia to London Heathrow &#8211; in normal times the longest route to and from the UK. The jet will return nonstop from Heathrow to Darwin in the Northern Territory with Australian citizens on board &#8211; a distance of 8,608 miles.</p><p>The passengers will then need to quarantine at a former military base near Darwin for two weeks.</p><p class="sc-ptCms fzKffT"></p></div>