--- 
extends: _layouts.post 
section: content 
image: https://sm.mashable.com/mashable_in/seo/2/21880/21880_r3z8.jpg 
title: > 
  ‘Clouds’ Review: A Music-Filled, Uplifting Look At Life In The Face Of Terminal Illness 
description: > 
  His story is at the centre of Disney+'s latest film Clouds.Clouds, based on accounts from a book Zach's mother wrote, follows the last few months of Zach's life.In the past few years terminal romance movies, stories of young people with terminal diseases falling in love have found a separate genre.Most films with a terminal romance arc would serve you the story in steps.This isn’t a teen romance with a side of reality, it’s a real drama with a side of teen romance. 
date: 1602675130.5817137 
--- 
Justin Baldoni directs ‘Clouds’ from a space that feels personal. The story of internet sensation Zach Sobiech chasing his music dreams just months after being diagnosed with terminal cancer plays out a realistic tale of mortality with a side of teen romance and drama. With a brilliant cast led by Fin Argus and Sabrina Carpenter, Clouds lifts you up and makes you cry as you observe a mature, moving portrait of life and death.

Back in 2012, a song titled 'Clouds' went viral on the internet. The fluffy, uplifting track was sung by 17-year-old singer Zach Sobiech who was battling osteosarcoma, a rare type of bone cancer. His story is at the centre of Disney+'s latest film Clouds. At first glance, Clouds is a guaranteed tearjerker. While I am one of those viewers who almost never cry while watching a movie, subjects of mortality are a soft spot. The Fault In Our Stars and Five Feet Apart had me bawling my eyes out so when I realised that the film comes from Five Feet Apart director Justin Baldoni, I was secretly relieved that the film developed at Warner Bros. switched to Disney for distribution. The studio with its long history of "Disneyfication" is associated with infusing tragic stories with innate hope. Clouds has a good looking cast, a plot that moves with music and a positive messaging. That should keep the tears at bay for the most part, right? Well, over the course of 2 hours, Clouds was about to offer hope in plenty but prove me wrong on every other aspect.

The film casts Fin Argus as Zach Sobiech, a teenager from Minneapolis who is diagnosed with terminal cancer, Sabrina Carpenter as Sammy, his best friend and songwriting partner, Neve Campbell and Tom Everett Scott as his parents Laura and Rob and Madison Iseman as Amy, his girlfriend. Clouds, based on accounts from a book Zach's mother wrote, follows the last few months of Zach's life. During these months, he met with his budding stardom head-on as he became an internet sensation with a record deal from a music label and decided to live life to the fullest in spite of the insurmountable reality of his cancer diagnosis.

In the past few years terminal romance movies, stories of young people with terminal diseases falling in love have found a separate genre. These are often sensitive arcs of teenage love, personal battles for survival and important life lessons rolled into one. If done poorly, they can go over the brink of distasteful cinema but if done just right, they make for insightful movies and Hollywood isn’t done with trying to perfect the genre. What makes Clouds a unique entry into the crop of movies is that it is a biopic and it has a director who is heavily invested in the story. Perhaps the reason Clouds felt like such a personal film is because Justin Baldoni in 2012 made a documentary on Zach’s life before he passed away. Back then, he made a promise to Zach that he will tell his story to the whole world. So the film in its essence has been in the making for eight years and this is Baldoni fulfilling his promise. It’s nearly impossible not to look at the film in this context and cry a little harder when the credits roll with behind-the-scenes pictures. But before that, here’s everything that goes right during the run time-

Clouds begins by introducing us to Zach in his senior year of high school. This is the year everyone’s working on their college essays, gearing up for prom and feeling invincible (like Zach puts it) “the kind of invincible that tricks you into thinking that tomorrow might be a better day to start chasing your dreams.” Almost immediately, we meet Zach at his charismatic best as he nervously takes on the school stage to deliver a hilarious performance, guitar in hand. We also meet Sammy backstage who shares Zach’s passion for music and Amy who clearly has a huge crush on Zach. Most films with a terminal romance arc would serve you the story in steps. You get the fun highschool experience - the highs and lows of ordinary life - the initial hope even in sickness and finally, the terminal diagnosis. Efforts are usually made to delay the bleaker aspects of the film, but Clouds is refreshingly mature and doesn’t believe in tampering with reality. The film takes teen romance tropes and reality and fuses them into a perfectly balanced narrative. So when you watch Zach finally record his song, share his dreams with the people he loves and contemplate writing his college essay although he knows he isn’t going to college, the viewer never loses sight of what the film is about. This isn’t a teen romance with a side of reality, it’s a real drama with a side of teen romance.

Disney

Clouds is at its best when it’s walking a fine line between hope and melancholy. There are heartwarming scenes that will (for a moment) have you believe that things are going to be okay and the brave characters in the film will overcome no matter what. These scenes are juxtaposed with moments of sadness that are unafraid to open the floodgates of pain and existentialism. As Zach comes to terms with his mortality, the film stays as raw as possible. Keep an eye out particularly for scenes of stillness, where the camera hovers over its subject’s expressions and by extension, emotions. And when its time for a release, the actors portray every breakdown, every outburst and every complex feeling brilliantly. This is your cue to cry your eyes out and trust me, you will. The credit, of course, belongs to the amazing cast of the film. Fin Argus is breathtaking as Zach. This is the actor’s breakthrough role and he didn’t just manage the incredibly challenging feat of playing a real person but also carrying the film on his shoulders. Don’t get me wrong, Sabrina Carpenter knows how to occupy the frame with her acting chops that feel surprisingly evolved after her work on Tall Girl and Work It and of course, the voice that comes with being a singer/songwriter. Moreover, Campbell and Scott play the relatable supportive parents to a tee and Iseman is graceful and compassionate in her role. The performances are pretty airtight and it gives the film plenty of room to experiment with a range of feelings.

But that doesn’t mean Clouds doesn’t know how to have fun. The film is ultimately about hope, doing your best with the fleeting time humans are given on earth. And what better way to channel it than music? The film has Zach and Sammy’s (the duo called themselves A Firm Handshake) music. The titular track ‘Clouds’, ‘Fix Me Up’ among others are expectedly featured in the film, forming the musical narrative. And that’s where the uplifting parts of the movie come from. ‘Clouds’ the song hits differently when you watch it play in the movie after you’ve been given context on how it was created and it lets you have that big burst of energy you’ll most likely need after you’ve been crying for a while. This is what Clouds really is - highs and lows, tension and release like music, like life.

Clouds premieres on Disney+Hotstar on October 16, 2020.

Cover artwork: Disney+, Dhaval Punatar